# FedID CG/WG Telecon Notes, 2025-01-14 (Atlantic)

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan

* Scribes: Wendy Seltzer, Phil Smart


# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
  * Reminders:   
    * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)  
  * IIW (April 8-10) and possible F2F (April 11\)  
* Lightweight FedCM  
  * [Consider adding an IDP chooser for unconnected IDPs \#687](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/687)  
* FedCM Issues  
  * [Specify account labels \#669](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/669)  
  * [Specify "Use another account" \#678](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/678)  
* AOB

# Notes

* Admin  
* Heather: Recharter, no new information from the Council on the FO. Chairs have been checking in regularly with Simone.   
  * IIW will be April 8-10 in Mountain View, CA. Proposing a half-day F2F on April 11\. (Other half is WebAuthn, joint lunch). OpenID Foundation usually meets Monday (Apr 7).  
* Lightweight FedCM  
  * [Consider adding an IDP chooser for unconnected IDPs \#687](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/687)  
  * Ben: Arises from Lightweight FedCM discussion on UI hint freshness, contextual integrity. How we handle FedCM accounts. Keep aligned between lightweight, full FedCM.   
  * Lots of complexity in having accounts endpoint not disclose who RP is, which we have to do because the user hasn’t yet consented to anything. Idea I had was to put an IdP chooser up, with a connected accounts set; you can then disclose who the RP is. Nick and I discussed in the comments.   
  * Heather: Feedback from the group?  
  * Ben: There's Good discussion in the issue. One takeaway: this proposal directly conflicts w/ delegation model proposal Sam brought in November. Depending on prioritization, it’s one or the other.  
  * Nicolas: What do you mean by “direct conflict”?  
  * Ben: All the benefits you can get here happen only if you disclose RP to IdP, which you never do in the delegation model. I’m proposing moving it forward, whereas the delegation model says not even then.   
  * Phil: If you don’t currently have a connected account, you go through standard flow?   
  * Ben: Redefine the accounts request to include RP, let IdP reply with accounts that are relevant. If you don’t have an account, need to request user consent, something like the widget depicted.  
  * Phil: Choose your IdP, rather than account, at this time.   
  * Nicolas: You still choose an account after you pick IdP.  
  * Phil: In this case, you first choose IdP, which makes sense to me, similar to how we do it.  
  * Sam: Is the proposal that you put an IdP chooser before making the accounts endpoint request? Or after IdP chooser, grant access to storage API? How do you make a choice between those?   
  * Ben: It’s the first one. Here’s your IdP, only in the case where you haven’t already linked your account on that site. Addresses contextual integrity issues.   
  * Sam: Why wouldn’t you take it further and get out of the way? I.e., not do the accounts request at all, grant SAA, and do everything in userland?  
  * Ben: You’re forcing them to go through a flow, choosing an account. You still have to complete the account flow to get storage access.   
  * Yi: From a privacy threat model perspective, continue is essentially an SAA grant. They can construct the flow on their side.  
  * Ben: It’s justifying the nicer, smoother UI of something IDP-branded by forcing the IDP to continue the flow. Incentives. Thanks for the feedback.  
  * Erica: I think part of the value is having more standardized UX, I think that’s valuable to users and IdPs. Users know what they’re doing; IdPs have less work to do. Think there’s value independent of the capabilities, from a privacy model standpoint.   
  * Nicolas: I think this kind of dialog will be somewhat unclear to the user because we don’t have the user accounts. The benefit of FedCM is that the user understands what is going to happen. Whereas if you just show the origins involved, it will be less clear to the user what will happen afterwards. I think this UX is less clear to the user, at least less clear to me. Less clear about the information flows between two parties. Think that’s a regression. Acknowledge that not having the accounts endpoint fetched immediately is a privacy benefit.  
  * Ben: I think putting accounts you have somewhere else in a drop-down, is harmful to users' understanding of which websites know what. I think having a prompt more akin to “you can use your Google account to sign in” is better than “allow use of cookies”. It seems challenging to have a user see an account shown on a page, and know the account isn’t yet available to the page, yet when they click the pop-in, the info is there.   
  * Sam: On this point, each browser chooses which UX to use. You may disagree with how Chrome uses it now. You can pull it into a place that is more clearly not part of page content.   
  * Ben: Browser UI flexibility is great, but …  
  * Johann: the spec should allow for some behavior as Ben describes, and it should be optional to provide what Chrome does. Can we enable user agents' choice to show this UI, and not force it upon implementers who don’t want it?  
  * Ben: Spec is sufficiently flexible to allow these choosers.   
  * Erica: I think you want this in the spec to simplify accounts endpoint, right? Built-in assumption that an IdP chooser exists.  
  * Johann: Complexity..  
  * Sam: If we put IdP chooser into the spec, it forces Chrome to not make the UX choices it wants.   
  * Johann: Can we put accounts chooser into a separate feature? Discuss that to a standardization point as a separate proposal?  
  * Ben: This may be moot… the delegation-oriented model has some nice privacy properties that only work …  
  * Nicolas: This is about changing privacy considerations for accounts endpoint. Without IdP knowing who RP is. Main point of contention is if Chrome wants to keep from sending RP, but FF would like to send RP… but hints are still needed. Maybe look at what would be made obsolete/unnecessary? Find those features and find a way to make them optional?  
  * Ben: Will think about the feedback re privacy threat model.   
  * Heather: thanks, please update the issue when you have more thoughts  
* FedCM Issues  
  * [Specify account labels \#669](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/669)  
  * [Specify "Use another account" \#678](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/678)

PS scribe, slight format change.

* Heather:  
  *  the next topic is account labels  
* Christian:  
  * Let's talk about *using another account* first. Ben to think about PR: https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/678  
  * This lets the IdP specify whether they want the UI to show another button to choose another account.  
  * Also applies (PS, or is useful) to Firefox’s UI implementation   
  * Boolean value in the IdPs configuration. Some IdPs do not support multiple accounts, some do.  
* Nicolás:  
  * Can be separately enabled for passive or active mode.  
* Ben:  
  * Sounds pretty reasonable. Was not tagged to review, is now, so will be reviewed.  
* Heather:  
  * Any feedback?  
  * …  
* Nicolás:  
  * Can defer if needed to next week.  
* Ben:  
  * What is the set of things we want to apply to filter accounts? This is for account labels?  
* Nicolás:  
  * Driving changes based on IdP is not a bad thing.  
* Ben:  
  * Do not want to exclude IdPs who have not been involved.  
* Nicolás:  
  * Labels are controlled by the IdP. Some of the others are controlled by the RP.  
  * An IdP can offer different products, so might want to label accounts differently.  
* Alan:  
  * Clarify the problem. On an RP, already logged into IdP, you want to choose another account on the IdP?   
* Christian:  
  * Yes, but that was the previous PR.  
* Alan:  
  * You’ve already got an IdP RP connection.  
  * …  
* Christian:  
  * This is shown on the account chooser by the browser.  
  * You can choose another account on that chooser.   
  * The IdP can decide if they want to allow the UI to show a "choose another account" button, if they support multiple accounts.  
* Heather:  
  * Are we OK to merge "choose another account"’?  
  * Any other questions or concerns?  
  * …  
* Christian:  
  * Ben is going to take a look and go from there?  
  * (PS, yes, looks like it)  
* Heather:  
  * Ben is going to take another look  
* (Account Labels)  
* Elf:  
  * From the perspective of Solid or Linked Web Storage, there is no previous relation between IdP and RP. This PR looks like there is prior knowledge required.  
  * Is there an assumption that there is a prior relationship between IdP and RP?  
  * Or can it work in the IdP registration API scenario?  
* Christian:  
  * This is purely in the IdP.  
  * You can use this with the registration API.  
  * Entirely in control of the IdP.  
* Elf:  
  * Will take another look at the problem.  
* Tim:  
  * Maybe value in predefined values in a registry for labels, to avoid collision.  
* Christian:  
  * Could consider that.  
* Alan:  
  * Any scope for users to add labels instead of the IdP (operator?). Label which of these is my work account.  
* Christian:  
  * This is up to the IdP, not for this spec.  
* Ben:  
  * Question. The IdP specifies which labels are acceptable in config, then says which labels to use per account?  
* Christian:  
  * Different config URLs, different endpoints, different accounts.  
* Ben:  
  * How many Config URLs are there?  
* Christian:  
  * As many as you want, providing the accounts endpoint is the same.  
  * That was an approved PR which has previously been discussed.  
* Tim:  
  * MS as an endpoint for personal and work.  
* Christian:  
  * We talked about this on [November 26](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2024/2024-11-26-notes.md) (see [https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2024/2024-11-26-notes.md](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2024/2024-11-26-notes.md)).   
* Heather:  
  * Spent time on this PR, what do we need to change for this to move forward?  
* Ben:  
  * Maybe first, we try to get a good general structure, rather than filtering by String.   
  * We filter by three (currently) different String fields.  
  * But will look at it again, from the perspective of multiple configs.  
  * Three nearly identical mechanisms, it is confusing.  
* Christian:  
  * OK, so Ben will take a look and we go from there.  
* Heather:  
  * IdPs and RPs, please comment on the issues so we gather that perspective.



# Attendees (sign yourself in)

* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* Sam Goto (Google Chrome)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)  
* Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd.)  
* Wendy Seltzer  
* Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)  
* Björn Hjelm (Yubico)  
* Mike Jones (Self-Issued Consulting)  
* Steffi Dobretzberger (DAASI International)  
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net) (independent, Solid CG)  
* Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLink Software)  
* Erica Kovac (Google Chrome)  
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)  
* Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)  
* Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)  
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)