# FedID CG/WG Telecon, 2025-01-07 (Atlantic)

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan

* Scribe: Michael Knowles

Call-in details: see [https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter: [https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
     *   Michael Knowles
  * Reminders:   
     * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
     * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)  
  * IIW (April 8-10) and possible F2F (April 11\)  
* FedID CG/WG Process  
  * [Update proposals-CG-WG.md \#12](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/pull/12) \- see also [Issue 11](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/issues/11)  
* FedCM Issues  
  * [Horizontal Review preparation](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/652) \- specifically the Security/Privacy review  
  * [Fields API \- PR 668](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/668)  
  * [Specify account labels \#669](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/669)  
  * [Download profile pictures before filtering accounts \#670](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/670)  
  * [Specify "Use another account" \#678](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/678)  
* AOB

# Notes

* Re-Charter Status:  
  * Heather  
      * Formal objection and re-charter status  
      * Hoped council would have been done by EOY  
  * Simone:  
      * Some info from council remaining  
      * Tomorrow we’ll ask remaining members for more feedback  
      * And will include existing feedback from Rick  
      * No deadline at the moment in the process at the moment  
* Face to Face meeting  
   * Heather  
     * Ideally after IIW (Apr 8 through 10\)  
     * Lots of people go to Mountain View then  
     * Also WebAuthn meeting that week  
     * Maybe a half-day meeting on Apr 11th  
     * Would give us a nice point in year to talk about where we are with getting this FedCM to Candidate Recommendation status  
  * Sam:  
     * Sounds good\!  
     * Previously had one with SAML in the IIW week  
     * Could we do it at the beginning of the week?  
  * Heather  
     * No, Open ID Foundation is at beginning of that week and will suck in a lot of members  
     * Also Heather can’t make it until Tue that week  
  * Michael Jones  
     * Isn’t WebAuthn meeting Friday?  
  * Heather  
     * Yes  
     * Want to coordinate agendas to make sure people could attend half-day of each and get max value  
  * Sam  
     * There are lots of Google offices around IIW  
  * Heather  
     * Ideally in same building as WebAuthn meeting, to allow for max cross-pollination  
     * Will work with Tim to coordinate agendas and venues etc.  
  * Tim  
     * Do people have a preference for whole-day vs. half-day?  
     * Probably don’t have enough in WebAuthn to justify a whole day…  
  * Heather  
     * THinking half-day  
     * If we are re-chartered by then — not sure how much will be FedCM vs Digital Credentials  
  * SAm  
     * Can we cover DC as well?  
  * Heather  
     * Yes  
  * Sam  
     * Even despite the objection?  
     * Would be good to talk through FedCM, DC, and WebAuthn despite any objections  
  * Heather  
     * Makes sense — but want to just get the date in everyone’s calendars  
  * Sam  
     * Tim: Maybe assume all day between all those three topics?  
     * And then decide how much of each later?  
  * Tim  
     * Assuming whole day regardless  
     * But some people might only be there in the morning for WebAuthn-only or FedCM-only (as they are separate groups)  
  * Heather  
     * Will go ahead and put a hold on W3C Calendar for Apr 11th  
     * And get details of agenda and location sorted out over next month or so  
* CG / WG Process  
  * Heather  
     * How to handle stages to proposals  
     * Largely based on TC39 and WHAT-WG  
     * But there were changes that we needed to apply to ours  
     * PR put together to outline those changes  
     * Not dedicated to any specific changes — just wanted to write them up  
     * Sam \- had a bunch of concerns over things that had not been completely clear  
  * Sam  
     * Went through the PR  
     * Seemed for the most part correct  
     * Lots of editorial changes were made. That made it a bit hard to parse out Normative vs. Informative changes  
     * Substance of PR seemed generally correct  
  * Ben  
     * If any help is needed with Git things — can help out  
* [Horizontal Review preparation](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/652) — specifically the Security/Privacy review  
  * Heather  
     * Currently have Security open  
  * Phil  
     * Need to work with Nicolas on Security Considerations of the Spec   
  * Simone  
     * Also ping me as Simone is working on security considerations as well  
  * Heather  
     * There are also several horizontal reviews pending  
  * Wendy  
     * Accessibility review is the big missing one that remains  
     * Don’t need an expert  
     * Just someone who is willing to dig into the questions that Accessibility groups ask and work with the Accessibility team to assure that what we’re proposing is ok  
     * Important to get these things started early to correct any accessibility issues before design is too far along  
  * Heather  
     * Any volunteers?  
     * Will reach out to Tzviya for help  
* [Fields API \- PR 668](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/668)  
  * Christian  
     * Ben would think about his feelings on this topic  
     * Waiting on his input  
  * Ben  
     * No current thoughts  
     * Trying to see where this is  
  * Heather  
     * Probably in call notes from the call before the last one  
     * Discussed last on 19 November meeting  
     * Will not   
  * Phil  
     * Is there a mock or demo of that to see how the new UI would look?  
     * Had been trying to review PR and hadn’t been able to piece it all together  
  * Christian  
     * I can put some screenshots together  
     * It does two things  
       * Not show the text “to continue google.com will share your name to Pinterest", etc. don’t show   
  * Phil  
     * Is there an opportunity for users to consent to the things the RP requests?  
  * Christian  
     * Not right now  
     * Considering future extension to allow users to do that  
     * Didn’t do it right now, as RPs might require certain pieces of information  
  * Phil  
     * Seemed like it would send to IdP things that were listed  
  * Christian  
     * Yes, currently sends things that are listed  
     * Don’t currently send list of things that were shown  
     * Because right now we don’t support customizations  
  * Phil  
     * As follow-on, you could have things that are sent from FedCM, which could be different than Scopes, which could be different than RequestedAtrributes pre-registered in SAML metadata.  
     * IdP could be releasing things that the RP does not know to ask for, which the user might need to consent to at the IdP.  
  * Christian  
     * We don’t want something super-generic  
     * Wouldn’t want RPs to request arbitrary scopes  
     * Envisioned this to only be useful for requested scopes  
  * Ben  
     * Did look at this  
     * Complaint still stands  
     * Nothing stopping the absolute minimum included in list — such as just name  
     * And then immediately going to the back end to get a persistent identifier  
     * It’s a UI hint shaping the user’s opinion  
     * Seems like it belongs in continuation API  
  * Christian  
     * Very common situation where this API will lead to a much smoother experience than the continuation API  
     * If the RP only wants the name or email address  
     * Seems unfortunate to require another pop-up just to say the email has been shared  
  * BEN  
     * In the last convo we could be clear that it MAY show this info  
     * But don’t feel comfortable to not giving users control over info  
  * Christian  
     * The way we were thinking about it  
     * An IdP should show continuation API   
     * If FF were to always send empty list and IdP requires user to confirm it, they should use the continuation API to show it to the user  
  * Ben  
     * If I have no intent to ever ship this, should it be in the Spec?  
     * Would that stop us from getting to CR status?  
  * Heather  
     * If a spec isn’t wholly implemented, is it still a spec?  
  * Wendy  
     * Process requirement is that every feature should have 2 independent implementations  
     * If we’re not seeing another place where there’s an implementation, that would put the feature at risk  
     * Doesn’t preclude continued discussion on whether there are alternatives to make it implementable  
  * Ben  
     * If it’s buried under “User Agent MAY do this…” does that change requirements for CR?  
     * I.e., if it is optional in the Spec?  
  * Sam  
     * Have an intuition that using MAY for spec and feature detection might help  
     * Seems like there is more to clarify here  
     * Believe it is actually implementable  
     * But if Ben believes that it is not implementable, introduce Spec language to make it optional  
  * Ben  
     * Interested to hear what further info would change mind  
  * Sam  
     * Perhaps privacy threat model for continuation API and dialog are different from Chrome’s  
     * Chrome takes mediated dialog, has attribution to IdP  
     * Mediated Browser UI is giving accountability to IdP to serve its user  
     * Meaning that if an IdP mistreats its users by sharing more info than was requested by RP, it would also be able to do that using Continuation API or pop-up window  
     * So there is no more incentive to do it through FedCM, than other means  
     * So maybe the FF’s threat model considers the browser to be accountable?  
  * Ben  
     * Seems like what is in a browser dialog implies that the info there is coming from the Browser which users consider to be a more trusted surface than an IdP pop-up window  
  * Sam  
     * Browser-mediated UI is not just browser UI  
     * But it is whether the user understands that the data that is provided is being provided by a specific entity (such as IdP)  
     * Expects this to play an even greater role in the future evolution of FedCM to the Browser-Delagated role (similar to Mozilla Personas mechanism)  
  * Ben  
     * Also having a perspective of that proposal  
  * Sam  
     * I’ll package that up for general consumption / review  
     * But the Fields API still should make sense — from a trust perspective the browser isn’t making any promise that it can’t keep  
     * User has to trust IdP to serve its role  
     * That is the same promise we’d make with a top-level pop-up for Continuation API or a top-level redirect  
  * Heather  
     * Seems like one of 2 things need to happen  
     * Either revise spec language to make it optional and browsers can move forward  
     * Or push it forward knowing it can potentially block things if no alternate implementers can be found  
  * Sam  
     * Stage 1 proposal for Delegation Oriented FedDCM won’t block anything  
     * Both of your options seems plausible, if there is a fundamental disagreement between FF and Chrome  
     * Could create an ecosystem problem in that RPs would have to handle different browsers’ implementations  
  * Chrstian  
     * Optionality does already exist for this  
  * Heather  
     * Let’s keep it optional for now and see how it goes as the spec moves forward  
  * Sam  
     * If the UA decides to not use this at all, then the IdP knows that, forcing the IdP to use the Continuation API as the alternate  
     * This would allow IdP to degrade gracefully in an interoperable way  
  * Ben  
     * Reading PR now  
     * Seems to say “MUST” display — might need to re-read it  
* [Specify account labels \#669](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/669)  
  * Christian  
     * Would like people who previously commented on this to review and see if recent changes affects their opinion  
     * Maybe for next meeting?  
* [Download profile pictures before filtering accounts \#670](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/670)  
  * Christian  
     * This is to ensure pictures are all downloaded before filtering takes place  
     * To ensure IdP cannot discover which filters are being applied by the UA  
  * Phil  
     * Is this where it would normally download a profile picture, and if it doesn’t then the IdP can deduce that a particular profile had been filtered out?  
  * Christian  
     * Yes — generally, or the opposite — the IdP could discover that only the profiles whose pictures had been downloaded were the ones that were presented to the user  
  * Ben  
     * Good catch — that’s great  
  * Heather  
     * Any objections to merging?  
     * (none)  
     * Sounds good to merge  
* [Specify "Use another account" \#678](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/678)  
  * Heather  
     * Might want to consider this next call?  
* Next call  
  * Will be next week same time  
* AOB  
  * Phil  
     * Could we talk about logout and login status api?  
     * Could that be a signal to FedCM to call logout actions?  
     * Reading of Login Status API there is a logout mechanism  
     * That is to inform other browser APIs of logout event  
     * Might be used to call Logout endpoints of RPs that are in the connected set and/or trigger clearing of session cookies?  
     * FedCM knows about connected IdP / RPs  
     * Could that be taken advantage of?  
  * Sam  
     * Thinking about Front Channel Logout?  
  * Phil  
     * Yes — along those lines  
     * Use FedCM to send logout signals to the connected set of RPs  
  * Sam  
     * Yes — definitely resonates  
     * We can pick this up and make progress on that area  
  * Heather  
     * Request to Phil to create a comment so we can pick it up in a future call  
  * Sam  
     * Chrome M132 is stable Jan 7  
     * Packed with a bunch of FedCM APIs  
       * Fields  
       * Continuation API  
       * Button Mode  
       * (and more)  
     * Blog post will come out shortly



# Attendees 

* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Mike Jones (Self-Issued Consulting)  
* Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)  
* Simone Onofri (W3C)  
* Erica Kovac (Google Chrome)  
* Achim Schlosser (Bertelsmann)  
* Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)  
* Hicham Lozi (Apple)  
* Tim Cappalli (Okta)  
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Siddhartha Pandey (Microsoft Edge)  
* ​​TallTed // Ted (he/him) Thibodeau Jr (OpenLinkSw.com)  
* Bobby Karsono (Alcia Solusi Digital)  
* Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd.)  
* Wendy Seltzer  
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)