# FedID CG/WG Telecon, 2025-01-21 (Atlantic)

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan

* Scribe: elf Pavlik

Call-in details: see [https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter: [https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
  * Reminders:   
    * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)  
  * IIW (April 8-10) and F2F (April 11\)  
* Ecosystem Updates (5 minutes)  
  * IdP/RP implementations  
* FedCM core specification development  
  * Design team proposal  
* FedCM Issues  
  * [Get Title doesn't have language or direction metadata \#682](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/682)  
  * [Allow for language negotiation or localization of privacy policy and TOS? \#681](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/681)  
  * [Fields name and given\_name have unclear usage \#680](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/680)  
  * [IdentityProviderBranding field name should provide lang and direction \#679](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/679)  
  * [concerns about email in Accounts List \#317](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/317)  
  * [Horizontal Review preparation \#652](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/679)  
* FedCM PRs  
  * [Specify "Use another account". \#678](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/678)  
  * [Allow user agent to wait or reject the request before any fetch \#676](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/678)  
  * [Specify account labels \#669](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/678)  
* FedID CG/WG Process  
  * [Update process](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/pull/12)  
* AOB

# Notes

* (Heather) [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/) \- Still waiting for Council responses  
* Face to face meeting after IIW, on the Friday of that week (April 11, Mountain View, CA)  
* A week before IIW is called TIIME and is happening in … (Europe)  
* Heather’s list of conferences: [https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/wiki/2025-List-of-Identity-and-Related-Conferences-and-Standards-Development-Events](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/wiki/2025-List-of-Identity-and-Related-Conferences-and-Standards-Development-Events)   
* If you know of a missing conference, please let Heather know\!

### Ecosystem updates

* Heather: Any updates?  
* Joel: We implemented FedCM in Shopify stores. I would like to give a demo at the next meeting, I also have numbers for conversions, i.e., how many RPs are signing in. If you have any questions, please send them our way.  
* Heather: How should people reach out? Slack?  
* Joel: Yes, I’m on federation Slack channel.  
* Zacharias: [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/664](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/664) Maybe raise that here?  
* Joel: We can discuss it if the time allows.  
* Heather: Anyone else?  
* Phil: I was looking at the logout stuff. We couldn’t do it currently but we can make some suggestions.   
* elf: Solid CG is working on implementation, OIDC provider. Hope to have more updates from Solid in a few weeks

Design team defining common FedCM core

* Heather: We need a consensus on what needs to be in the spec. We need a design team to identify the core. Currently there is a lot of "optional" language there. We need to know what is currently implemented across web browsers.   
* Wendy: Nicolas said “Too much? How so?” in the chat, would you like to elaborate?  
* Heather: Chrome is going ahead with implementing things, Firefox not everything. We need to have common parts that are implemented across browsers, if we want it to be a recommendation.  
* Wendy: This is what standards making is, distinct from what individual teams are doing in their implementations. Now that we see implementation efforts from different teams, we need to find out what is getting into multiple implementations. What are the common parts that can be relied on in every FedCM API implementation?  
* Heather: To respond to Nicolas, I would like a design team to focus on the text. This will be some hours of focused phone calls. I think we can move more quickly this way.  
* Wendy: When the spec starts being reviewed by the W3C team and TAG, they will be asking where they can find the component implementations. The spec has to prove itself.   
* Heather: Any objections to a design team as a way forward? \[hearing none\] Do we have volunteers for the design team?  
* Heather: I see Ben and Nicolas on the team, others can join but you will be required to contribute. I will help with the work.  
* elf: Any updates from Safari?  
* Heather: There are no commitments from Safari. We are open for things to be self-asserted; they want them to be verified. The Safari team is not participating regularly in this work.

Open Issues and PRs

* Heather: Christian and Nicolas, which issues would you like to discuss?  
* Ben: I can talk about issue 317 concerns about email in Accounts List \#317 [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/317](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/317)	  
* Ben: Not everyone wants to use email addresses in this way. The value is not UI focused… in the end there was no action.  
* Sam: Christian might be the closest to this problem. We are actively working on that, we ack that this is a problem. There are various IdPs which don’t have email addresses for all accounts; for example, Shopify. Having it required is not viable; we need to make it optional; we need to figure out how we do that. Christian is actively working on it.  
* Christian: I don’t have a final proposal yet, working on the options. Making email, phone number, and email optional. We will need to decide what to show based on what is available.   
* Sam: It is the hard problem, there is an account chooser, and having an email address, it is easy to disambiguate between accounts. As Christian mentioned, we can use phone numbers, names, or something else. We think it is possible, but we didn’t find an easy answer.  
* Joel: At this point, we (Shopify) do have email addresses for all accounts, but we don’t always have a name. We are exploring alternatives to the email address, like a phone number. Especially with passkeys, we may not require an email address but only a phone number. It is not the case today, but may be in near-to-mid-future.  
* Christian: I know that you may have a situation where there is only an email address…, I’ll take it into account.  
* Ted: It gets hairier when you look at the knot your trying to untie. This is not just a UI issue; it is a challenge of presenting an identifier that the user always has, It may include phone, email, etc. We were doing some experimental work, where we allow people to login to our system via any number of identity providers. Once they've done so, we provide them with the list of their own identities that they can choose from. Those cards can look the same for a person (i.e., same name, phone number, email address, but on different IdPs for different personae), the person may need to see deeper than may seem necessary from the technical perspective.  
* George: We have this problem in normal, non FedCM env. We have a login alias which can be username, email, phone. In some accounts, they may issue a 10–12 digit number which is seen in the account chooser, the user needs to remember which to use for what purpose. We may need to show them a list, and allow them to tag those accounts in a way that is meaningful for them. It is not very different from what we need to deal with nowadays.  
* Ben: Building on what Ted said. The origin of the IdP can be used, I see it as closely related to the I18n issue of name and given name being different. It is unclear how what we send is used in the first place. They both revolve around how to construct an account chooser entry.  
* Harrison: We should separate identifiers into attributes. You can create one when you create a database or use decentralised identifiers. UI needs to disambiguate different identities using attributes or a generated image. We should separate the two problems: one, persisting unique identifiers for identity; second, using attributes that allow the user to distinguish those identities.  
* Heather: I see several issues, all coming back to I18n. How difficult will it be to make changes to the spec to handle those specific issues?  
* Christian: I would prefer one at a time  
* Heather: [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/682](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/682)  
* Christian: The spec change itself is easy; it might be harder to implement it.  
* ???: For the title that works.  
* Heather: How do we get from harmless but useless, to it actually making sense?  
* Christian: The person asking for it should explain how it would be useful.  
* Heather: We requested a horizontal review, not sure how much more attention we can get.  
* Christian: It would be helpful to ask for more information.  
* Simone: I can request more feedback.  
* Heather: ACTION update the issue with request for clarification.  
* : Is there an existing ??? command? It is equivalent to querying the system language. If it exists, we don’t need to implement it for this title, since it uses the browser language. We are unclear how useful it is.   
* [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/681](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/681)  
* Christian: This implies adding an accept-language header. Implementing it in Chrome seems harder than I thought it was going to be. I think it makes sense and we should do it.  
* Heather: Should I assign one of you to describe it in the specification?  
* Christian: sure  
* Heather: Issue 630 — fields name and given name have unclear usage  
* Ben: It is unclear if one is full name. Also the naming around them should have language direction data.  
* Christian: I have thoughts on the metadata, can we discuss it separately.  
* Ben: There is a suggestion to clarify that probably a given name shouldn’t be composed with a name.  
* Nicolas: Do you mean the field name?  
* Ben: The suggestion is that guidance in the spec is good, maybe renaming them to full name and nickname?  
* Nicolas : We can …  
* Ben: I’m not sure if breaking change here is justified.  
* Sam: OIDC has those as standard claims, we drew inspiration from there and HTML5 autocomplete.  
* Ben: Horizontal review requested a change.  
* Sam: If we need a breaking change, sooner is better than later.  
* Nicolas: This was just a suggestion; it is stated as such. We can add a note so that the user agent doesn’t assume that the name is the "last" name.  
* Harrison: You can have a full name in different formats. Then you have components of the name, which you can use to standardise on that string.  
* Christian: One of those could be a nickname as Ben suggested. It matches OIDC  
* Ted (in chat): Once again, [Awesome Falsehoods Programmers Believe About… Human Identity](https://github.com/kdeldycke/awesome-falsehood?tab=readme-ov-file#human-identity) (https://github.com/kdeldycke/awesome-falsehood?tab=readme-ov-file\#human-identity)  
* Nicolas: We don’t need to specify all possible components. We just need to clarify that it can be used to build a reasonable UI.  
* Heather: Do we have any volunteers for that?  
* Nicolas: sure  
* Christian: We still need to discuss the metadata. It is easy to add it to the spec; IdP can provide a language direction to the browser. I’m skeptical that the IdP has a reasonable way of getting that data and the browser to use it.  
* Nicolas: The browser can just overwrite the browser’s language. In HTML you can set the direction.  
* Ben: The language hint is for things like screenreaders.  
* Nicolas: Where would this field come from? Ultimately all this data comes from the user; it is not IdP's choice.  
* Ben: Direction seems necessary. I need to check Chrome and Firefox, for example with Arabic names.  
* Ted: You can have one string which includes characters from multiple alphabets. I shared a link in the chat, I would urge everyone to get familiar with nuances described there.  
* Nicolas: When a user provides their name, they make sure that it is the way they can read it. The question is what input they used. I can see how it can be useful for edgecases.   
* Pavlik: Could it be optional as a progressive enhancement?  
* Ben: I tried to get an Arabic name into the FedCM UI and I got an error about retrieving a token.  
* Heather: We should play around with it a little bit more.  
* Nicolas: There is a question of how do you need to write them in a JSON file?  
* Christian: What do you mean? I’m sure we have test data that includes Arabic.  
* Heather: I’m not clear what the resolution here is… We will come back to it.  
* Heather: We will not get to IdP branding field name, we can have it next week.


# Attendees (sign yourself in)

* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* Sam Goto (Google Chrome)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)  
* Erica Kovac (Google Chrome)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLink Software)  
* Wendy Seltzer  
* Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)  
* elf Pavlik (independent, Solid CG)  
* Sam Schlesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)  
* Joel Antoci (Shopify)  
* Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)  
* Steffi Dobretzberger (DAASI International)  
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)