# FedID CG/WG Telecon, 2025-03-04 

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan

* Scribe: Michael Knowles

Call-in details: see [https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter: [https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
    * Michael Knowles  
  * Reminders:   
    * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Charter update](https://www.w3.org/2025/02/council-report-fedid-dig-cred.html), [future meetings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yR7emdjwk4BJsQWTrt06m5BTrawjlo6U-Q_ShTEpEy8/edit?usp=sharing)  
* Design Team update (5 minutes)  
* Ecosystem Updates (5 minutes)  
  * IdP/RP implementations  
* FedID CG/WG Process  
  * [Update process](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/pull/12)  
* FedCM   
  * [concerns about email in Accounts List \#317](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/317)  
* AOB

# Notes

* Heather  
  * With overturning of formal rejection, WG will be asked to bring in Digital Credentials API work sooner rather than later.  
  * CCG (Credentials Community Group) right after this meeting, has a presentation of what is the Digital Credentials API (they will also present to the FedID WG at a later time)  
  * So if you can attend, do so.  
  * CCG calls are open to visitors  
  * [https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/weekly](https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/weekly)  
* Simone  
  * Will formally update the council to formally remove the objection  
  * Question on ETA to have DC formally published by WG  
  * Impossible to have ETA for standard — but that is always the question  
* Heather  
  * WG has not even yet been formally updated (Call for Consensus to include DCs)  
  * Assuming no blockers in that process, it took 6 weeks from the Call for Consensus for FedCM from first Working Draft until when it was published  
  * In best case scenario, would imagine bringing DC API in April 6th hybrid meeting  
  * Then add 6 weeks to that — that would be the minimum line in the sand to have a first Working Draft as officially accepted.  
  * So, there is progress, but not as rigorously timed as might be desired.  
  * Working under the assumption that we will eventually be bringing in DC API  
  * But then what happens to the meeting schedule?  
  * Schedule will likely change  
  * Notes on proposed meeting schedule  
    * [Proposed 2025 Meeting Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yR7emdjwk4BJsQWTrt06m5BTrawjlo6U-Q_ShTEpEy8/edit?usp=sharing)  
  * This is a joint call between FedID CG and WG to ensure broad as possible participation  
  * But the WG is where standardization happens  
  * For people who aren’t interested in DC API (perfectly fine to be not interested in Wallet things)  
  * Will continue weekly calls in this time slot  
  * Will terminate the Pacific calls \- not attracting the desired attention (only 1 or 2 people show up)  
  * Will have WG meeting quarterly now, hybrid  
  * Will discuss ALL the items in the WG  
  * THree opportunities for remainder of year  
    * Apr 11th in Mountain View post IIW  
    * July IETF meeting \[Madrid\]  good milestone in EU  
    * November TPAC (in Kobe, Japan)  
  * What if you are only interested in the DC API?  
  * Will be using current DC API schedule  
  * Flip between “A” calls and “B” calls (Europe and Pacific friendly)  
  * Those will be WG calls  
  * Have not updated any Calendar entries in the FedID or DC Calendars yet  
* Sam  
  * Any opportunities for people who are interested in the intersection of both?  
  * Proposal sounds wonderful (keeping status quo as much as possible)  
  * But one benefit of having everything together as there is a lot of overlap  
  * Fine to punt (as separate meetings) for a while  
  * But interested in how to reconciling things  
* Heather  
  * Reconciling / understanding how much overlap three is between DC API and FedCM is perfect for Apr 11th meeting  
  * FedCM is getting a lot closer to Candidate Recommendation status  
  * Would like to get the Core FedCM “out the door” before integrating DC API work into the WG  
* Wendy  
  * Agree with all of that  
  * Suggest the overall GitHub repo is open to discussion to raise among the whole working group and CG  
  * Chairs watch all those convos  
  * If any issues need joint discussion, they can be added to the respective meetings and agendas will be distributed across both groups to ensure awareness of joint issues  
  * Every member of the WG is entitled to participate in WG discussions  
  * NOTE: People need to re-join the WG in order to continue participating, as the Charter of the WG has now changed with inclusion of DC API  
* Elf  
  * Assumption that DC API will not affect outcome of FedCM  
  * If it could, then waiting for CR would not be good, as CR implies general stability of API  
  * So, if there is any potential for changes we should wait with CR status  
* Heather  
  * Not aware of any potential disruption, but would be good to hear from others  
* Ecosystem Updates (5 minutes)  
  * Theo  
    * Work in integration of FedCM in Solid  
    * Have made good progress \- have working demo  
    * Have been able to integrate FedCM into the most used client/RP Solid-OIDC library (of Liquid / SOLID?) and Community Solid Server (RS and OP/IdP implementation)  
    * [https://fedcm-client.liquid.surf](https://fedcm-client.liquid.surf/)  
    * [https://github.com/liquid-surf/fedcm-demo](https://github.com/liquid-surf/fedcm-demo)   
* Design Team update  
  * Heather  
    * Had good call yesterday  
    * But still getting minds around what is Core FedCM Spec vs. not  
    * In Core spec \- what multiple  
      * Accounts Pull  
      * Login Status API  
      * Params API  
      * (Phil Smart added from chat) Continuation API  
    * Not in Core (will be tagged as “extensions”):  
      * Passive Mode  
      * Fields API  
      * Client Metadata Endpoint  
      * Accounts push, fka “FedCM light”  
    * If everyone implements Core as designed, that will ensure interoperability  
    * If browser implement Extensions that would be interesting \- might incorporate some Extensions  
  * Elf  
    * What about IdP Registration API?  
    * What Theo just explained relies on IdP Registration  
  * Sam  
    * Will leave IdP Registration out of Core for now  
    * Allows RPs to accept any IdP, not just the one that the RP is enumerating specifically  
    * Thinking about Core as the set of things that a second implementation would agree with  
    * So, for sequencing purposes, IdP Registration is out of core \*right now\* \- expect it to be part of Core in the future  
  * Elf  
    * Understand \- important for Indie-Auth and Solid / Liquid  
  * Theo  
    * What would be required to push this forward into Core?  
    * More feedback from the community?  More people implementing it?  
  * Sam  
    * Definition of Core is when you have a second implementation that agrees with the design?  
    * Chrome is probably the farthest in terms of implementing it  
    * Chrome looking for commitment to actually deploy IdP Registration API  
  * Michael Jones  
    * As “friend of Research and Edu”: RPs in that space need to be prepared to accept any IdP in the space  
    * Classic example is to use U. of Washington credentials to access resources at CERN   
    * Allowed because they share a trust framework  
    * Not the case that every RP will list / enumerate every IdP  
    * So ability to bring your own IdP will be essential  
  * Heather  
    * Design team’s work is definitely not done  
    * All updates will come back here for consensus / approval  
    * Design team’s mandate is to speed up “core” conversations  
* FedID CG/WG Process  
  * [Update process](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/pull/12)  
  * Heather  
    * As Heather is an Editor, can put both Substantive changes and Editorial changes in the same doc  
    * Request to pull those apart  
    * Did that — now two PRs  
    * One is mostly Editorial  
    * Other is mostly NOT Editorial  
    * Several questions and feedback in the PRs now  
  * Wendy  
    * [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/pull/12](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/pull/12)  
  * Heather  
    * First question — revising stage 2 formalization  
    * Nicolas is asking for a complete formal draft of … “what”?  
    * Attempt was complete formal draft of specifying the feature, once it reaches Stage 2  
    * (Nicolas?)  
    * (Nicolas is on vaca)  
    * Next question: WHat does it mean that we ask the WG for a Working Draft, and does every proposal have a separate Workign DRaft?  
    * Interpretation of other WGs guidelines  
    * NOt sure if it makes sense here, or whether we should revert back to previous text?  
    * Not sure how to handle it?  
    * Maybe instead of saying as Working DRaft say PR?  
  * Ben  
    * If it’s an update, then yes, a PR.  
    * If it’s a whole new thing, then a document draft would be more appropriate.  
  * Heather  
    * Not sure that having the Draft Specification text is appropriate  
    * Will likely pull that part out.  
    * Next: Stage 3 — none of our stuff is in Stage 3, so it’s a weaker proposal  
    * Based on TC-39 and WHAT-WG work, this attempts to tighten it up a bit  
    * In Stage 3 assumption is that we’d have multiple implementations  
    * Not wrong…probably…  
    * Goes back to consideration of Core   
    * Should we revise this to be two implementations “supporting” rather than “implementing”  
  * Sam  
    * What’s the difference?  
  * Heather  
    * In WHAT-WG it says two implementations “support” but not necessarily “implementing”  
  * Sam  
    * So, two implementations are conceptually correct, but not necessarily “implementing”  
    * I.e., “ready for implementation” but not necessarily “implemented”  
    * Stage 4 might be the stage for implementations  
  * Ben  
    * The text made sense to me  
  * Wendy  
    * We have several approving reviewers  
    * A few reviewers who had previously reviewed but made subsequent comments  
    * With Nicolas not on the call, might need one more round of feedback  
    * If this is of interest to you, look at PR again  
    * Maybe try to close it out next call?  
  * Heather  
    * Ted — changes you made have not been lost (in the process of separating Substantive vs Editorial changes)  
    * So, they’re still there  
* FedCM — [concerns about email in Accounts List \#317](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/317)  
  * Christian  
    * Not entirely sure if it needs to be in Agenda+  
    * Have a proposal that is going through approvals right now  
    * Will share with the group once all approvals obtained  
  * Heather  
    * This was more of a check-in to see if it was ready for discussion  
    * Seems like not  
    * Will pull Agenda+ tag  
* Solid / Liquid / FedCM Integration Demo?  
  * Theo  
    * (maybe not today?)  
    * Next week it is\!  
    * [https://fedcm-client.liquid.surf](https://fedcm-client.liquid.surf/)  
      * (for those   
* AOB  
  * IIW / meeting  
    * Michael Jones  
      * What time is the meeting?  
      * DCP (?) is also going to meet Friday Morning AND Monday Morning  
      * Conflicts, maybe, with FedID WG meeting  
    * Heather  
      * Yes — still trying to figure Apr 11th scheduling  
  * Next week  
    * Wendy is coordinating / hosting



# Attendees (sign yourself in)

* George Fletcher (Independent)  
* Samuel Schlesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Erica Kovac (Google Chrome)  
* Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)  
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net) (independent, Solid CG)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Wendy Seltzer (co-chair)  
* Michael Jones  
* Simone Onofri (W3C)  
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://openlinksw.com/))  
* Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)  
* Emily Lauber (Microsoft Identity)  
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)  
* Steffi Dobretzberger (DAASI International)  
* Theo \- Thhck  
* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, co-chair)  
* Tim Cappalli  
* Harrison Tang  
* Zacharias Törnblom  
* Kevin Druff  
* Hazar AlSahnawi  
* Sam Goto  
* Ben VanderSloot  
* Achim Schlosser  
* Aaron Parecki