# FedID CG call (Atlantic) 23 January 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: (meeting being recorded; HF will take notes from the recording)

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   [<u>2023 Conferences</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/wiki/List-of-Identity-and-Related-Conferences---2023)

-   [<u>Consider supporting federated login without IDP APIs \#3</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/3)

-   AOB

    -   next call is a Atlantic call (30 January 2023).

Notes
=====

Tim: Sam had requested a list of identity conferences; those have been
aggregated into a [<u>wiki
page</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/wiki/List-of-Identity-and-Related-Conferences---2023).
Feel free to add others that we’ve missed. What’s there runs through the
2023 calendar year.

[<u>Consider supporting federated login without IDP APIs \#3</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   Ben: core proposal here is a new federated credential to be a
 minified version of FedCM to spark discussion. It’s likely to be a
 set of features to be added to FedCM to enable certain behaviors.
 Core idea is to be able to have a FedCM-like experience with a
 federated login with partitions or deprecated 3pc, and doing this
 without adding the IdP APIs. In FedCM, this is without section 5
 in the spec. Rather than relying on the server endpoints, you have
 some sort of interaction with the IdP itself through a login
 status API-type thing. If this works, you have a user click login,
 if they aren’t logged in yet, they get a pop-up. A permission
 prompt comes up, they say yes, they’ll get a pop-up stating that
 they’re sharing an identity with an IdP, and they log in. There
 could be a registration at this point, but it’s unlikely. Go
 through the entirety of the login flow, all the things done with
 doorhangers in FedCM is done in-page at the IdP, and when it’s
 done, it makes a call back to the login status and shuttles info
 back to the RP page. Developer and User experience are covered in
 the issue.

-   Tim: One comment - this would behave very differently from the
 original Login-Status API?

-   Ben: Yes, this is a parallel extension of login status, mainly
 useful for just this.

-   Johann: Had a few questions. First was around what are we solving
 for? That’s not meant as we don’t have a problem here, but want to
 know what guardrails we’re applying.

-   Ben: The first one is, IdPs might not want to implement all this
 server stuff. It’s more of a lift to create new infrastructure. I
 couldn’t find issues to support that concern, but I know we’ve
 discussed it. Also, there’s a major hole in FedCM for the UX of a
 user not already logged in. If a user isn’t already logged in,
 FedCM falls down and there’s no way to recover.

-   Johann: Is that to the detriment of FedCM? Shouldn’t it be possible
 to also register or a path to login via a new tab?

-   Ben: I think it’s greatly to the detriment of FedCM. If a site has a
 login available via NASCAR buttons, you click one, if you’re not
 logged in, the site is on a two-minute timeout before the site
 learns it fails.

-   Johann: Overall, not to say the proposal isn’t good, but can we take
 apart some of this and make this something we have to solve
 separately for FedCM? Still trying to understand how the authZ
 comes into this. You’re solving for registration and not having
 these kinds of APIs, and now the authZ part comes in. There are a
 lot of stacked problems.

-   Ben: this is filed as a separate credential type so I had a blank
 page to work from. This could be incorporated into FedCM with some
 clever adjustment of function calls. The type of provider config
 could be a maybe between two different types in FedCM, like if
 you’re handling a not-logged-in case, you could tag it in there,
 or you could add a URL to direct a flow.

-   Tim: Is not logged in at all is its own beast of a problem.
 Microsoft requires context for a login. If you don’t specify a
 client or service, you cannot log in. We should include that as
 something to talk through.

-   George: Heard the comment about not combining all these together,
 but if I have an SPA that I need to login to, that must make API
 calls on behalf of the app, I must handle authN and authZ in the
 same flow, which leads to a terrible user experience. We have
 real-world examples of this; we need a flow that enables this to
 happen with a good user experience.

-   Ben: That is enabled by having an IdP-controlled page in the
 process.

-   George: I think so? If I can send a blob, then I can put in that
 blob to the IdP from the RP the scopes that I want issued as part
 of this flow. So when I show up at the IdP, the IdP knows what I’m
 doing and from which RP, and it can run all that in the back end.
 All of us do a ton of backend risk analysis around requests.
 Having context is critical to do that to protect against fraud and
 offer a good UX. So, yes, by having that blob and capture it, and
 have the page with the IdP, allows the IdP to do things. Also
 allows us to handle other things like helping users re-verify if
 something has happened to their account.

-   Johann: didn’t mean to say let’s not try and do things. It’s more in
 the sense of, if we can identify small steps we can take on
 existing APIs to make them usable, we should do that rather than
 invent a new API (though if we have to do that, we can). Anything
 we do here if it’s possible to improve FedCM, we should make those
 changes.

-   GEorge: the core goal of FedCM is to solve the identity flows that
 break when 3pc go away. One of those is the already-logged-in
 case, and the log-out case. Not sure much time has been spent on
 solving other flows. Agree we shouldn’t have competing protocols.
 The use cases are important when we look at these cases. FedCM
 seemed to be trying to explicitly separate authN and authZ, which
 in some cases create a bad UX.

-   Tim: my concern is we’re still using mixed terminology when we talk
 about what FedCM is doing now. Even the change to registering is
 correct in some places, wrong in others. Users that use “sign in
 with google” on an RP is still creating an account on the RP, not
 on google. It’s a whole matrix of possibilities, which I’ve added
 to the issue.

-   Sam: Great to hear a proposal from Firefox! The more the better!
 Wanted to validate two key problems you are addressing that are
 important to us too: (a) lowering the costs for IdPs and, almost
 as importantly, (b), giving IdPs an extensibility entry point.
 Reminds me of Chrome used to call “The Permission oriented model”.
 Reminds me a bit about “The SAA.” Just clarification questions, to
 clarify my understanding:

    -   The IdP frame, is that using partitioned cookies? Doubled-keyed
     by what? The RP’s origin?

    -   At what point does the RP learn about the IdP? After the prompt?

    -   Is the prompt per RP-IdP?

-   Ben: The way the prompt work is, you call the RP (no frame
 involved). You call navigators.credentials.get with your
 credential type with info, it checks the permission, will show it
 if it doesn’t exist, the permission says “do you want to use a
 particular IdP” so it’s IdP-RP paired, and on accepting that, then
 the semantics are that there is some degree of communication that
 this flow is unlocked. So a pop up might happen, or a new tab, and
 the IdP page will open. That IdP will be able to transmit info
 back to the RP in a first-party context.

-   Sam: So after the permission prompt, can the IdP know who the RP is?

-   Ben: Yes, they would have to the way it is structured. That’s in the
 login-status-request. The IdP can see the origin and some request
 blob, so they can know some info of what the RP is requesting of
 them.

-   Sam: from a storage partition perspective, the IdP gets access to
 first-party storage?

-   Ben: yes, because it’s a separate top-level window. Why do this
 rather than having a URL link decoration? Good question, hadn’t
 thought about that option much. General fear over browser taking
 things away is one reason, but that’s not a good reason. No one is
 planning on removing link decoration from auth flows in the near
 future.

-   Sam: from an IdP incentive perspective, this is a worse user
 experience because there is an additional permission prompt, and
 the communication is narrower. The IdP needs something to
 counterbalance the implementation costs.

-   Ben: Yes, good point. Need to think about that. But having this as a
 tie-in to FedCM gets you the effect of being involved in the
 navigator credentials API and being able to integrate multiple
 IdPs together and have options to allow users to select between
 different federated options.

-   Sam: last question: do the semantics of this flow allow 3pc later,
 so they could use front-channel logout later?

-   Ben: front-channel logout, if all RPS are using credential store
 rather than saving the token you get from going through it once,
 if you delete the credential, then the front-channel logout works
 magically.

-   George: still seems like there’s a need to notify the RP when the
 credential is removed from the credential store? That’s the point
 of front-channel logout, it’s to let the RP know that the
 credential is no longer valid. The RP wants to know the user has
 logged out.

-   Ben: that’s something that can be added in; we have a log in URL,
 could have a logout URL. Will have to think about that.

-   Judith: my impression is that, yes, there are concerns with link
 decoration particularly where using cryptography and so the
 decoration is unique each time. It’s not just the RP sending
 something the same each time; when the RP is sending a unique
 value each time, that’s something we might be looking at to
 protect privacy. So, for the question of why not link decoration,
 if you’re doing it securely, it would look unique each time and so
 look like tracking. I think it’s valuable that the RP be able to
 send more info than just who the RP is; not only are there OAuth
 requests of “here are the scopes we’d like” there are also step-up
 requests used at time, requests that say “even if the user has a
 session at the IdP, we need confidence that the user at the
 keyboard can prove who they are.” Or, stronger proof is required
 and so ask for additional authN factors. There are multiple things
 that RPs send to IdPs. Also want to speak strongly about the IdP
 having a way to work with the user at that point. For example, fi
 they get a step-up request, the IdP may need to engage with the
 user even if there is a session there. There are also IdPs that
 bridge different communities, and those IdPs may also be RPs in
 other scenarios. So, want to support the flexibility this is
 showing. It read to me as if the RP would have two different
 behaviors, one where it says “click this button to pick an IdP to
 associate with this,” which is different from later flows. How
 would that support a user associating multiple IdPs with an RP?
 That’s providing RP knowledge before the user has interacted with
 the page. It seems like innocuous knowledge, but it is knowledge
 pre the user’s actions.

-   Ben: nothing to direct to that. One thing on the last point of
 knowledge to the RP; if we have some sort of combo where there is
 “tied into FedCM” the info about which IdPs has been used already
 can be done within the browser and not exposed to the RP. Circling
 back to Sam, did want to say thanks and glad that Google is taking
 this proposal well. Also want to comment on some of Martin
 Thomson’s point. It’s hard to have the authN and authZ separate;
 as soon as you start tying in information from the IdP into the RP
 and open that channel, everything is being shared and the user
 can’t be clear what’s going on, and it’s something we’ve been
 trying to avoid sharing (tying the characteristics about the user
 for authZ). If we can store it in the browser, it might be easier
 for users to be able to see and recognize what’s happening without
 sharing that information more broadly. If we don’t tie that in, it
 seems like we’re doing a disservice to the user.

-   Johann: I agree with Martin here. Not sure what to make of the
 proposal because it ties so many things together. I think it’s
 useful to have a concept of a more open and less strict IdP
 API/FedCM flow, not sure why it needs to be tied into the authZ
 and why there needs to be the sending back of info that needs to
 be displayed in some way. To Martin’s point, it’s easier and truer
 if we just recognize that we’re passing an identity all the time
 and display to the user some fashion of the identity that the IdP
 is providing to the RP. I’m concerned with building an API that
 really stays true to the principles the FedCM has built up, that
 it must be clear to the user what they’re passing to the IdP/RP.
 AuthZ is actually a distraction.

-   Ben: that is fair and something Martin and Ben will talk about, the
 utility of partial disclosure being displayed to the user.

-   Johann: right. Why not focus on the flexibility first?

-   Judith: the flip side of that, for many of us we work in
 environments of what you consider an authN flow is always
 authN+authZ, or sometimes only authZ, no identity is being passed,
 it’s just a transient identifier. The browser can’t tell the
 difference between an identity flow, and identity+authZ, and authZ
 only. We have to take in the full breadth of what’s going on when
 the browser becomes an active participant.

-   Ben: As we get into this, I see the depth of the authN/authZ
 conversation is hard to handle. It might be helpful to discuss
 these separately. A minimal version of an addendum to this that
 makes sense is tagging on that client information so the user has
 something to anchor on and help them make info, but not having the
 full depth of claims.

-   Johann: I agree, that’s an important properly. Making sure this is
 exhibiting similar properties to FedCM is important.

-   Ben: there might be a neat way to tie them together and have them
 semantically identical, but need to flesh that out.

-   Brian: stepping back front he authN/authZ question, from the user
 development perspective, we have a credential management API, we
 have username/password flows, doesn’t mean you can’t do pure authN
 but there is an account creation flow that’s a subset of the authN
 today. When I start hearing all the discussions about these
 splits, we already have passkeys and username/passwords, how are
 those going to play for developers and users, and are we going to
 add a third thing here to make it more feature-rich and confusing?
 Or are we going to try and make escalating from pure authN to
 account creation to a data sharing flow something that’s natural
 from the API perspective?

-   Tim: dont’ forget VCs and mDLs

-   Sam: Ben, love that you’ve kicked this off. I think you’re going in
 the right direction, and this coexists with mediation. Keep going
 in this direction. Excited to see next steps and possibly hop on a
 smaller call to dive into details.

-   Chris: Interesting stuff. All this is predicated on the user knowing
 their IdPs. Research & Education has many many IdPs. Is this going
 to deputize the browsers to become a DDoS? When everyone at the U.
 of California turns on their browsers in the morning, will that be
 a DDoS for the IdP system? Also, it would be really helpful to
 have a sequence diagram to help explain this and be something we
 can take back to our community to discuss. We want to see what our
 infrastructure would need to stand up to make anything like this
 happen.

-   Tim: out of time, but great discussion. Next call will be an
 Atlantic call. Everyone should keep commenting on that issue.

-   Ben: eventually I’ll link to it somewhere in the FedCM repo as an
 issue.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Judith Bush (OCLC)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

-   Zachary Tan (Google)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd.)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Kaustubha Govind (Google Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Chrome)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Nikos Fotiou (AUEB)

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI Int.)

-   Brock Allen

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)
