# FedID CG call notes, 21 August 2023
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe:

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Heather

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
         Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
         Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   FedCM issues

    -   Localhost flag needed for testing -
     [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/491</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/491)

    -   Use cases for Cross-Site Cookie Access through Storage Access
     API after FedCM grant? -
     [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/467</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/467)

    -   A not-yet logged in IDP has no route to success with this flow -
     [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)

-   [<u>TPAC Draft
 agenda</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12PLJQHrTCwFDcLeBvOiH3RjYHuVCF1a9ljYyPUj-S3o/edit)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   (Kyle) from Brave. For past 5 years or so, have worked on
 decentralized identity, at Evernem and them Matt3r. Now working at
 Brave, serving as an overlap between identity and browser
 development. Wants to share how Brave sees the overlap between
 identity in Web2 vs Web3 and how Brave sees FedCM. Brave is
 largely supportive of FedCM. Having these as browser APIs should
 have been done during the OpenID era. Seeing them integrated and
 managed in the browser makes sense, even without the
 cookie-weighted stuff happening. Some of what Brave has done
 that’s slightly different is how to block third-party connections.
 The phone home connections can turn into fingerprinting, and that
 can be problematic. Brave has built in features to block sign-in
 with Google, or other features to allow access in one-off events
 (per site). How do you see where identity credentials fit in now?

    -   Link to describe this feature:
     [<u>https://brave.com/privacy-updates/24-google-sign-in-permission/</u>](https://brave.com/privacy-updates/24-google-sign-in-permission/)

    -   Link to how we think about changing chrome UI in FedCM:
     [<u>https://github.com/brave/brave-browser/issues/31352</u>](https://github.com/brave/brave-browser/issues/31352)

-   (Sam) wanted to ask you that question! The answer from me is “I
 don’t know.” But, want to hear what others think. There’s a lot of
 intersection of people who are interested in this.

-   (Kyle) my take has changed over the years. 4 years ago I would say
 “why hasn’t this already happened?” Now, I look to the use cases
 driving the technology. This changes the architecture so data can
 be owned by users. A verifiable credential can just be a claim
 coming from a REST server. The stakes of the attestation of the
 claim don’t matter as much; it’s about portability. Raw claims are
 not of high value. With this work being pushed by government
 services, makes me leary of what will actually happen. It’s
 currently being driven by very liberal governments, but we are
 going to see this used as an oppressive technology. See for
 example what’s happening on Reddit with NSFW threads and possible
 legal requirements for identification that might bleed over into
 other areas.

-   (Sam) we’re worried about that too. The plans are already
 circumventing the browser, so how do you think about the where the
 ecosystem is moving?

-   (Kyle) when I saw the mDL stuff, that’s what I thought about. We’re
 granting access to every website to do this for free. Where does
 this slippery slope take us? It’s going to create a driving force
 (ha!) for people to get this and more dependencies build on it. If
 there payment required for verification, there will be a different
 game theory model. My thinking is that we keep this at the OS
 layer and limited in its capabilities. So, similar to what we’ve
 done with password managers, limiting who has access to this
 additional flag in the apps. That seems like a good limitation as
 there are checks that happen at tha app store layer.

-   (Sam) Brent, any reactions?

-   (Brent) generally agree with what Kyle has said. There is some
 confusion that many current flows for VCs circumvent the browser.
 Will be interesting to see where that ends up. Having the browser
 in the flow could add value to the process and normalize it across
 different systems, but there are other people that do not want the
 browser involved.

-   (Sam) One reason there is a belief that the browser should be
 involved is that it will control the level of friction, making it
 easier (or not) to use. It’s important that the browser and the OS
 get involved so it can control user friction and appropriate level
 of interaction with the user.

-   (George) to the point of browsers being in the flow or not, the
 biggest thing from an economic deployment perspective - are all
 browser guaranteed to give the exact same capabilities? Frm an RP
 perspective, it’s great the browser is not involved because they
 have a high assurance that the work they are doing with their
 partner can be guaranteed and certified, whereas if the browser
 becomes a dependency, they have no control over making sure this
 fundamental infrastructure works. If we want to move in this
 direction, and there are things that browsers could do to add
 value, we could 1) not break existing stuff and enhance the user
 experience (privacy, personalization), or 2) we break the core
 bits and introduce a new thing. But in doing so, there have to be
 guarantees that it is consistent and always available so RPs can
 count on it.

-   (Kyle) summarizing both those comments: we’ve introduced a trade
 off. We are limited in our capabilities in certain OSs to offer
 these guarantees. If we go down the path with strong consent flows
 that can be integrated with mobile and browser, there is a trade
 off where that coherence does not align when you use different
 OSs. There is difficulty when you place these constraints on apps.
 Do we have to provide guarantees for how things are running, which
 impacts the openness of the web? We want to restrict how these are
 being used and abused, which creates an interesting dynamic that I
 don’t have an answer for yet. So, we need to take more time to
 figure out. The worse thing will be to rush into it and offer
 something and then have a regulatory burden and it’s not in our
 hands any more what needs to happen.

-   (Chris) @kyle how does that square with the brave wallet work and
 the delegation of the place to be as in the OS as you describe?
 (ie what you described as the span of control for things— the
 browser being an app)

-   (Kyle) we would apply as an additional grant to be a wallet of
 sorts. We’re not entirely sure how we’d like that to work, but we
 are trying to see how we integrate identity credentials into our
 cryptocurrency wallet. At the end of the day, they are all
 transactions of utilizing payments.

-   (Chris) that answers my question. It does look like we’re keeping
 the wallet stuff off to the side in the new WG charter because
 there are so many open questions.

-   (Kyle) we’re supportive of this moving forward right away, and it
 does make sense to separate this for now. FedCM as level one with
 the optional feature to do more if we find an answer.

-   (Sam)
 [<u>https://brave.com/wallet/</u>](https://brave.com/wallet/) -
 Can you walk us through how this works? Are there APIs that are
 exposed to websites that they can call?

-   (Kyle) It originally wasn’t standardized; am working with the
 extension wallets to make this work. Metamask came about first,
 and they used an extension content script to inject a
 windows.etherium API. There are additional APIs and a JSON-RP
 server. Brave uses that pattern. See EIP6963
 (https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6963) which is trying to do an
 event loop architecture. This offers an opportunity to add
 additional consent flows into place, changing the UI on how the
 wallet works so we don’t have to inject these without the user
 consent to it. We want to avoid fingerprinting. Also trying to
 build in some backward compatibility.

-   (Sam) is the Brave wallet extension always exposed/available?

-   (Kyle) Yes. We will be changing that so it won’t always be that way,
 hidden behind a permission granted by the wallet rather than
 traditional wallet UI permissions. We do have browser permissions
 available that will remove the ability to do it; you have to go
 into the settings and hit block to prevent the ability to request
 consent.

-   (Sam) Any regrets on the design choices for wallets?

-   (Kyle) No, but there are things I’d like to change. It’s a very
 interesting dynamic trying to standardize stuff when there is one
 dominant browser and no standards org coordinating. The only want
 to make this work is to convince a lot of other wallet developers
 to do the same thing, and how to get Metamask to get on board.

-   (Heather) let’s continue the conversation at TPAC (next time we’re
 all available)

FedCM issues (Localhost flag needed for testing -
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/491</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/491)
)

-   (Christian) Chrome should support localhost already. Chrome does a
 search on the well-known file for the same host the IdP is on.
 Some of this is not written down in the spec.

-   (Phil) Utilizing localhost on HTTP seems to work fine, following
 what Achim described in the ticket. Would like to see it
 documented.

-   (Christian) we also have a flag to disable checks for .well-known.

-   (Phil) have tested that and it seems to work.

-   (Chris) The localhost conversation started because of lack of dev
 tool support. Without that, we needed local instrumentation.
 Welcome additional development on the dev tool side.

-   (Christian) in the absence of dev tool support, go to
 chrome://net-export to see the requests and responses.

FedCM (Use cases for Cross-Site Cookie Access through Storage Access API
after FedCM grant? -
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/467</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/467)
)

-   (Johann) not sure why it’s flagged, but happy to talk about it. No
 update on our side; we’re still evaluating if this makes sense and
 would appreciate feedback if people think it’s needed and whether
 it would help people implement FedCM on the IdP side.

-   (Kyle) is there any way we can restrict third party access to only a
 limited set of third party IdPs without causing additional consent
 checks? Have oyu thought about that?

-   (Johann) what’s the purpose of restricting this?

-   (Kyle) thinking about the FPS model, where there is a well-known
 cross-origin boundary breakage. We wouldn’t want to see that; we
 don’t want to break the origin boundary, and this might be an
 exception in how to do that.

-   (Johann) I don’t think we’re going cross-origin. Cookies are due a
 design decision, but that’s the normal properties of cookies;
 we’re not extending those. If a website were to get FedCM
 permission and storage access, they won’t have to show two
 prompts. People would be able to work with cookies when consent is
 given. There are some concerns we have to navigage (e.g., IdP-side
 tracking). It needs to be easy/default for the RP to prevent
 IdP-side tracking.

-   (Kyle) based on that answer, i don’t think I understand the
 question. Will follow up on the ticket.

FedCM (A not-yet logged in IDP has no route to success with this flow -
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)
)

-   (Sam) not much to report back. This is top of mind for us and we’re
 building prototypes based on what’s in that thread. Expect to see
 new flags in Chrome. We need the browser to degrade more
 gracefully when a user is logged out. We know this does not
 support requirements coming from higher ed, but we know it will
 cover a good amount of ground for consumers. We will report back
 on this more as we go along.

-   (Phil) that was using a similar mechanism for if your session is
 timed out, so there is a pop up, but you’ll see a sign in for the
 IdP

-   (Sam) we’re introducing in OT for the IdP to say whether their users
 are logged in or not; much of the algorithm is based on that
 signal.

-   (Phil) the difference in the consumer space is that you wouldn’t go
 to your university to log in as it is not a service, but if you’re
 going to Facebook it is both a service (RP) and an IdP. You see
 that as different from a flow where you would go to the University
 IdP and authenticate because you need to be authenticated to the
 RP itself? If there is a scenario that includes a pop up for MFA,
 no change? If you solve the space for consumer space, you might be
 farther along for the other stuff than you think.

-   (Sam) One step at a time. If we solve for one space, we might free
 up what we do in other spaces. The only difference we’re seeing so
 far is that we’re not releasing to the IdP who the RP is. While it
 is possible to log in to FB without knowing who the RP is, but in
 enterprise and edu it’s not possible to log in without knowing who
 the RP is.

-   (Phil) correct; need to know who the RP to enable the trust.

-   (Sam) not in the scope of this API to handle this scenario.

-   (George) Being signed into the IdP is not sufficient; sometimes it
 is dependent on the RP. A hybrid flow that is OpenID asking for
 scopes, it will be the scopes driving whether the user is allowed
 to continue. There may be other cases where the state of the user
 has changed due to back end activity, and the browser may not be
 able to make that connection. We will have to think through that
 scenario. Worried about doing something silently because the is
 Logged in status exists; if we don’t give the user an error, we
 need to give the user something, and recognize this might increase
 the friction. We haven’t really talked about step-up flows and how
 those work in FedCM, especially for higher-risk transactions.
 Decreasing the friction across the board will be problematic.

-   (Chris) Thinking about crawl-walk-run, agree with do this part first
 and other parts later. Having fewer differences so we can solve
 more problems together would be helpful. Less code and fewer
 divergent paths would be helpful. In this logged in experience,
 many IdPs outsource their MFA. When you outsource your MFA, you
 leave the domain and come back. That’s very important to many IdP,
 so the challenge is that the larger players that are both IdP and
 RP, they can infer that the user did MFA, but other sites might
 not be able to do that. Consistency across browser, especially in
 that small box on mobile, will be challenging.

-   (Kyle) it sounds like it might require a signal on the is Logged in
 side to suggest the level that comes with this, the ability to say
 “you’re logged in but you don’t meet the proper level” so it can
 make a request back to an IdP. That feels generic enough to use
 that across different identity flows.

-   (Sam) sounds like an interesting approach.



Attendees 
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Zacharias Törnblom (SUNET, SeamlessAccess)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Kyle Den Hartog (Brave)

-   Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Brent Zundel (Gen)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)
