# FedID CG call (Atlantic), 24 July 2023
  
  - Moderator: Heather Flanagan

  - Scribe: Cam / Chris will try to backup

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

# Agenda

  - Administrivia
    
      - Scribe volunteer(s)? Cam (I would like a backup)(Wendy can help)
    
      - Reminders:
        
          - [<u>Community Group
            Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)
        
          - [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
            Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

  - [<u>Draft Working Group Charter v2 - Web Identity Credential
    Working
    Group</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12iPABo4cDZU8hu-TzkgJEYFkxLVTZA319dSkskDgxa8/edit?usp=drive_link)

  - FedCM
    
      - [<u>Authorization
        cont'd</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/477)

  - AOB

# Notes

  - Draft Charter V2
    
      - Heather: This is a case of, there’s a lot we want to
        standardize, but the wallet work is too immature to include
        without more debate. For the current charter let’s tighten the
        scope to just what the CG has been focusing on. Note WGs can
        always recharter
    
      - Achim: As Tim shared on the mailing list, the work can
        continue, and we can continue on the standards track in
        parallel
    
      - Heather: I know Tim said people were coming together to
        coordinate under web incubator and we will hopefully find out
        sooner rather than later. Again the charter has overlap with
        v1 just a bit tighter.
    
      - Cameron: I am a fan of the language in the charter
    
      - Heather: In terms of deliverables, we are going to create
        informative docs. Things for the test suite, use cases, and
        primers.
    
      - Chris Phillips: In the charter, things like “don’t break
        things” feel like they aren’t articulated well. OICD and SAML
        are part of the intent and privacy had some breaking changes.
        And in the standard activities don’t break these things. It
        doesn’t jump out at me as a working group charter, and the
        proposed charter needs to circulate.
    
      - Achim: Something that jumps out in the scope is, I don’t think
        we are up to developing new assertion formats. From a scope
        perspective there is consensus what is being passed between RP
        and IDP is opaque to the browser. Could cause issue for new
        assertion formats. I know it’s not in scope for us. Maybe add
        “to facilitate federated auth” to be more specific
    
      - \[document editing in real-time\]
    
      - Chris: The other challenge is that this charter could be at
        odds with Cyber Security needs by masking information. If
        either party is trying to adjudicate trust, privacy says there
        will be nothing here, but that feels like it hurts sec.
    
      - Wendy: I think it is worth calling out the sec vs privacy as a
        point of discussion. It ultimately needs to satisfy both sec
        and privacy, and offer methods useful to both, to help the
        technology-users make right set of trade offs. The hope is by
        offering new privacy preserving methods, they can be
        alternatives to “gather all the data,” but we’ll need to prove
        that out, and see how it shakes out. Ultimately we also need
        policy solutions.
    
      - Chris: I am good with it as a dialogue item for sure.
    
      - Heather: Chris are you reacting to the thought experiment as
        you can see how privacy could impact systems sec, or is there
        something in the text that could create a big gap and I can
        see it.
    
      - Chris: I see it as a gap. Comment 1, don’t break things.
        Comment 2, Is this a dialogue or outcome of the work groups
        product and can be ubiquitously used. I know there can be
        tension between privacy and security but I think if it’s so
        restrictive on privacy then this becomes a fundamental
        existential question. Everyone in the group desires to have
        ubiquitous usage. The way I see it now in this quick read,
        what does this practice mean for cyber sec conversation?
    
      - Heather: But where to add to the charter? Is it in the Scope
        to note finding a balance throughout
    
      - Chris: I recommend looking at past W3C implementations, to see
        a sec review
    
      - Heather: Implied, because you’re going to get security review
        as part of the process
    
      - Chris: just think should put ~~privacy~~ security assessment
        closer to the front
    
      - \[from chat: Nicolas Pena Moreno to Everyone (Jul 24, 2023,
        11:20 AM): One issue here is that the security reviews are
        usually from user agent standpoint. I think Chris is talking
        about IDP's security model\]
    
      - Ben: I was going to say what Nicholas said which is the sec
        review you fet is from a user agent perspective. Making the
        considerations from the perspective would be out of scope for
        IDP check so we want to bring that in.
    
      - Heather: I’ll add a note just to give me something to work
        with
    
      - Achim: tracks with other discussions we had, IDPs had more
        complaints about the API and what calls effect what info.
        Maybe we can agree on the info.
    
      - Heather: added some draft language. Any other input on scope?
        \[silence\]
    
      - Heather: Deliverables?
    
      - Chris: when it comes to deliverables, how do we get to
        prioritization of this over that. I added in the comments a
        “hierarchy of needs”. Maybe there’s a recommended flow or
        prioritization. This would lead to more consistent application
        of the process.
    
      - Heather: In the charter you want to balance specifics and
        having the room to adapt. Personally I think the order of
        user, test suite, primer, I think is a good order. But what
        you set your test suite up to do is good for test suite and
        assurances. What I want to see is a sense that when we go to
        produce these things, are these the right things we will
        produce?
    
      - Phil: is there a test suite for the IDP/RP? How do we validate
        compliance?
    
      - Heather: Kind of what we talked about in the test bed
        planning. Each group has a need to see if this works with my
        environment. If IDPs and RPs are not required to use it, what
        is my user going to see to validate if they need tech support?
        How’s the JS, APIs, the browsers will want to check if they
        introduced new issues
    
      - Phil: that could lead on to some sort of cert suite.
    
      - Heather: That’s almost a governance issue. The OpenID
        foundation has a test suite (they maintain) to verify
        compliance. I believe the W3C has leaned away from this
        pattern.
    
      - Wendy \[in the chat: W3C requires test suites, but it doesn’t
        do certification\]
    
      - Heather: success criteria is boiler plate, some of the
        coordination is boiler plate, there are the orgs we wanna
        collab with. We want to add REFEDS to the list. The research
        and federation consortium has a WG to discuss what is going on
        in our CG. Also need active participation from 2 or more
        parties and the time commitments for each role (All pretty
        boiler plate). All the juicy stuff is in participation and
        above but the rest will come from how communications happen,
        how are things in the community group, etc.
    
      - Phil: We should add the solution should not introduce breaking
        changes to SAML 2, OpenID Connect, etc without transition
        period considerations
    
      - Chris: how does that read on out of scope?
    
      - Heather: Breaking changes are out of scope.
    
      - Michael Knowles: Sam is back today but still traveling atm
    
      - Heather: I wanna make sure Sam has opportunities to read
        through this and tim has had his changes made, then I’d like
        it in github ASAP. So I will see if I can have Sam and Tim do
        that review. That sound good?
    
      - Cameron/Alan: \[Thumbs Up\]

  - FedCM Devs:
    
      - Heather: reminder, I check the issues list for agenda+ tag
        before these calls. Please use/remove it as appropriate.


 
# Attendees (sign yourself in)

  - Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

  - Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

  - Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla) & his work reform cat

  - Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

  - Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

  - Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation, co-chair)

  - Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

  - Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google Chrome)

  - Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

  - Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

  - Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)
