# FedID CG call notes (Atlantica, 7 August 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron + Heather

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
         Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
         Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   IETF update

    -   [<u>https://github.com/intarchboard/proposed-program-whodis</u>](https://github.com/intarchboard/proposed-program-whodis)
     and
     [<u>https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/Identity-discuss</u>](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/Identity-discuss)

-   [<u>Proposed WG Charter: Web Identity Credentials
 WG</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/blob/main/charters/Proposed-WG-WebIdentityCredentials.md)

-   FedCM issues

    -   An update on Chrome's implementation and experimentation of the
     IdP Sign-in Status API:

        -   Why, what

            -   [<u>Timing attack
             problem</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/blob/main/meetings/2022/FedCM_%20Options%20for%20the%20Timing%20Attack%20Problem%202022-08-31.pdf):
             open issue for 2 years (thanks Ben)

                -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230)

            -   Last remaining problem for Chrome to resolve before it
             can enable FedCM without 3PCD

            -   Chrome [<u>phasing-out third party cookies for
             1%</u>](https://developer.chrome.com/en/docs/privacy-sandbox/third-party-cookie-phase-out/)
             of our users in Q1/2024, so we need to get this before
             that

            -   We have experimented with [<u>3-4 different
             approaches</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/blob/main/meetings/2022/FedCM_%20Options%20for%20the%20Timing%20Attack%20Problem%202022-08-31.pdf),
             with varying degrees of privacy and deployment
             trade-offs

            -   Overall approach acceptable by Firefox, AFAICT:
             Ben/Cameron, sanity check?

        -   Where things are

            -   We’ve been collecting data for a couple of quarters now

            -   Desktop OT in August/M116,

            -   Android OT in September/M117

            -   We think this will allow 3PCD Independence OT

        -   What comes next?

            -   We'd like to send our I2S in M119: Branch cut on October
             3rd, Stable release Nov 7th

        -   What we think is missing and where we need your help

            -   Waiting and analyzing experimental data from the origin
             trial and

            -   Merge spec PR

                -   The Login Status API

                    -   [<u>https://github.com/privacycg/is-logged-in/issues/53</u>](https://github.com/privacycg/is-logged-in/issues/53)

                    -   Ben/Cameron, WDYT?

                    -   What should we do if Apple doesn’t respond in
                     time?

                -   The FedCM Spec PR

                    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/436</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/436)

                    -   Ben/Cameron, WDYT?

-   [<u>TPAC Agenda
 Building</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12PLJQHrTCwFDcLeBvOiH3RjYHuVCF1a9ljYyPUj-S3o/edit?usp=sharing)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   IETF recap

    -   The Internet Architecture Board (IAB), Sister organization to
     the IETF, is proposing a charter on Identity. [<u>Proposed
     charter</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/blob/main/charters/Proposed-WG-WebIdentityCredentials.md)
     is in GitHub (see agenda) and mailing list.

    -   Heather: IETF WG sessions are recorded. DIscussions in the OAUTH
     WG may be of interest, esp. Friday’s OAuth meeting which
     discussed VC work.

-   Charter

    -   Proposed WG charter:
     [<u>linked</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/blob/main/charters/Proposed-WG-WebIdentityCredentials.md).

    -   Heather: Based on prior discussion, we moved wallets out of this
     draft charter. Encourage folks to raise GH issues with
     questions/comments/concerns.

    -   Brent: DIsappointed in the charter change. MDocs and VCs are
     part of the same development effort, and being incubated
     together

    -   Tim: 2 options, we hold up start on FedCM or open the door to
     work in level 2. That was the reality; that’s why I withdrew
     the OG charter. If the people creating the API aren’t at the
     table then we can’t make progress. This is still happening,
     just in multiple phases

    -   Sam: +1 Tim, Chrome is also unsatisfied by the lack of
     collective effort from other browsers. The intuition that the
     work in FedCM intersects with MDocs and VC, I think that makes
     sense, we are putting it up for challenges. I am glad that’s
     an intuition you have, but for what it’s worth breaking it
     down between working and community groups should speed things
     up. If you want MDocs and everything going better, it’s in CG
     rather than WG. Brent, I would appreciate it if you could
     share more with us.

    -   Brent: I’m still planning to be involved with the effort with
     the perspective that web wallets will want to make use of
     something related. I understand the perspectives shared by Tim
     and Sam. I will support it, just want to express my
     disappointment.

    -   Tim: Brent, anything in the charter would preclude an L2 that
     includes the stuff you are asking for?

    -   Brent: I haven’t gotten to review it yet but will do so with
     that feedback in mind

    -   Sam: Could use your intuitive understanding a bit more. If we
     can get more of what’s on Brent’s mind… I know Tim is planning
     to add ID credential work, but maybe we can do something
     before.

    -   George: I was unclear on what protocols were out of scope

    -   Heather: That came up in the last Atlantic call; folks were
     concerned about what was standardized in existing specs.
     Didn’t want to break anything without clear warning.

    -   George: Some clarification, that work could create breaking
     changes. If the proposal would result in a breaking change,
     The changes are in scope, what’s proposed by the working group
     would present a breaking change, would stop working. So I
     would like clarification on what we cover regarding breaking
     changes.

    -   Achim: 1 addition, in the preface where we discuss
     “authenticating claims by OEC or SAML”, I think we can
     actually remove that. To me it doesn’t make sense.

    -   Sam: I think you are right there’s no where it’s OICD or SAML,
     but we are trying to enable them so it’s not protocol specific
     but I think this resolves the tension

    -   Achim: So, you are saying that the requesting of the claim is
     not part of the API. I don’t mind but I am OK with it

    -   George (From the chat): Instead of "via" "in a compatible way
     with OIDC and SAML"

    -   Achim: Makes sense; end goal is to be as compatible as possible.

    -   Sam: I take that OIDC and SAML can change. We can’t be 100%
     backwards compatible

    -   George: SAML is discontinuing OSTC in SAM so if we do something
     to break SAML, it will break. Someone updating Shiboleth or
     whatever to add new functionality doesn’t have a chance of
     happening

    -   Sam: What happens next? We got TPAC in Sept, people are mostly
     okay with it. For the Mozilla folks, what do you think of the
     charter? And what next?

    -   Ben: We do need more internal review in Mozilla. I see a lot of
     call outs to us in the next work item.

    -   Sam: Yes, we want input on charter. Things incubated are still
     in the CGH, the question becomes whether we are happy with
     that work.

    -   Heather: For next steps, some suggestions from today that need
     to be addressed. To move to the WG stage, we need to post this
     out more broadly and send notes to PAT and Privacy CG and get
     feedback (will take some weeks). The EU knows how to treat
     summer time so many of them will be gone, but the rest will be
     where are most comments? Also need to let other communities in
     the hierarchy grow. W3C is also more open to closer ties
     between CG and WG. I don’t think there will be a WG by TPAC.
     It will be the last call for questions, comments, or concerns
     on charter. If you have clarifications please include issues
     on GitHub. Now I’d like to move to FedCM issues:

-   FedCM Issues @\_@

    -   Sam: Ben raised the timing attack issue. It’s been a problem
     forever, and the Chrome team really struggles with finding
     options. Especially hard for IDPs. Some slides in [<u>that
     deck</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/blob/main/meetings/2022/FedCM_%20Options%20for%20the%20Timing%20Attack%20Problem%202022-08-31.pdf)
     have proposals we made at TPAC last year that we ran by other
     browser vendors. Met with Ben and Martin, found some
     convergence. FX may take different stances, but reasonable for
     Chrome. It’s hard to understand and explain. If you want to
     understand, click on the link to the deck \[[<u>Link to
     deck</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/blob/main/meetings/2022/FedCM_%20Options%20for%20the%20Timing%20Attack%20Problem%202022-08-31.pdf)\].
     We want to get this solved pre Q1 2024. Chrome has been
     collecting data. Spec PR on the Repo. Implemented proposal and
     will have a release in August 2023 for desktop. Origin trial
     in Chrome for API. Will contain a desktop and android
     implementation. Ran by Chrome internal review process to help
     deprecate 3rd party cookies. Settled on a proposal defined in
     this bug for sign in status API:
     [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230).
     (“IdP Sign-in status API”) Can use this to boost the privacy
     properties of FedCM. Spoke with Ben and Martin, they suggested
     instead reconciling with the login status API, similar to what
     came from Apple.

    -   Ben: adding this interaction at the top level introduces a
     chance to show dialogue.

    -   Sam: Purely regarding Chrome's implementation. We are phasing
     out 3rd party cookies by 2024. If we catch CLs prior to oct
     before it rolls out to users. Last branch cut is 119 for
     October (to go live Jan 2024). We explored a lot of options
     with Ben and Martin; we are just trying to finalize for the
     Oct Branch cut. If the origin trial succeeds, much of that
     data will tell us whether things are working or not, so we
     don’t break Federated use cases. Most folks helping us are
     standards folks. 2 spec PRs we want to see merged before
     launch. Have a specific timeline to catch.

    -   Ben: the timeline is pretty clear, the reason for the urgency is
     just that chrome wants to ship this?

    -   Sam: walking backwards from 3rd party cookie deprecation, we
     want to see FedCM without 3rd party cookies, that’s driving
     this.

    -   Ben: My concern for FedCM is if someone isn’t logged in then
     FedCM won’t work for them. If this is Chrome's answer to
     federated login/3rd party cookies that would be a scary thing.
     Creates some big centering powers.

    -   Sam: That’s a big missing part of the spec. Find ways to do
     OAuth auth and scopes. We find many button flows break more
     manageably in this flow. So yes we need to resolve that but we
     need to be feature complete to get into OAuth scope API. Can’t
     be feature complete

    -   Ben: I am seeing a mismatch that you want to ship a non-feature
     complete just for Google prior to 3rd party cookie
     deprecation. But some other PRs need to be merged? Where is
     the abstraction in reality? I am just expressing my
     confusion/frustration.

    -   Sam: To be concrete, the 2 things we need are the IDP captured
     by the sign-in status API, and the AuthZ API which is a larger
     set of things. Sign-in status API is a big part of it.

    -   Ben: In regard to your request, I affirmed the "is logged in"
     spec and would like to hear from Apple since that’s their
     proposal. Would love a positive from them and what to do if
     they don’t respond in time? Seems like something we shouldn't
     rely on, would be something we are delaying.

    -   Sam: So how should we proceed?

    -   Ben: would be reasonable to say this is pending, we want to use
     the API shape but might be brittle

    -   Heather: The Apple API is still in Privacy CG so maybe we tag
     this as an agenda item for Privacy cg might be best bet.

    -   Achim: I agree, there was a goal to standardize it in Privacy
     CG, but no one is working on it there, so maybe work on it
     here? We can rip it back out of FedCM and solve it elsewhere.

    -   Sam: I can ask to add to this weeks privacy cg call

    -   Ben: Just a follow up, the FedCM spec PR, I had commented
     before, and I believe there’s a few big comments from Martin
     that are pending there. I think engaging there would be the
     path forward.

    -   Sam: So we will proactively try to resolve that PR. Then we will
     try to grab time to discuss all these. We want to see all that
     merged now as the results come in. We want to resolve these
     things.

    -   Ben: Do you see active use by IDP other than Google Accounts?

    -   Sam: We see a few others, but dominated by Google. Google will
     drive the origin trial but we see a few other IDPs, some
     appear to be an escape hatch to 1st party sets. Want to see
     sign-in work across companies. I think we will see many IDPs
     adopt FedCM to make these work across their domains

    -   Achim: may be worth defining the functional topics in the spec
     to make it feature complete. I am in agreement that some areas
     lack feature completeness without Side car OpenID. Would be
     good to put that somewhere. Most likely just a few things on a
     high level but worthwhile to agree with them

    -   Sam: agreed, for the next few years will be hard to generalize.
     Plausible we need to go little by little for IDPs migrating to
     FedCM. Architecturally holistic. We take the opportunity to
     add features as we find needs.

-   TPAC

    -   Heather: We have 3 sessions: Mon, Tues, Thurs. The chairs have
     been discussing what topics for each day? I have a rough draft
     of how that might look, I encourage adding comments on what
     that looks like



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   [<u>TallTed</u>](https://github.com/TallTed/) // Ted Thibodeau
 (he/him) ([<u>OpenLink Software</u>](https://www.openlinksw.com/))

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation, co-chair)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Priya Samuel (Elsevier, Identity Architect)

-   Matthew X. Economou (RDCT)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   
