# Notes: FedID CG call (Atlantic), 30 October 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron Boozarjomehri

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
         Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
         Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   Shifting from US-Pacific to UTC

        -   e.g., November through March calls would be one hour earlier
         than today

-   WG Proposal -
 [<u>Issues</u>](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/427)

    -   [<u>Poll re:
     naming</u>](https://us02web.zoom.us/survey/iFx4mbMg57kjAtL0vDzXBQy-Yw7cKixGkAGVu3BQtpTf7w98v14.jvr-eGQTvbCokUWU/view?id=_XUelyvTRqyQC9A495K9rQ#/sharePreview)

-   FedCM Issues

    -   Feature request: provide developers more visibility of auto
     re-authentication - [<u>issue
     497</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/497)

    -   Feature request: allow revocation - [<u>issue
     496</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/496)

    -   Users may be confused after showing intent to sign in but the
     sign-in is failed - [<u>issue
     488</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/488)

    -   A not-yet logged in IDP has no route to success with this flow -
     [<u>issue
     442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)

    -   Hosted Domain - [<u>issue
     427</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/427)

-   AOB

    -   Next call: Atlantic call, 6 November 2023, possibly at a new
     time!

Notes
=====

-   ID Credential COmmunity group

    -   Heather: pinned to UTC, but soon we will have time conflicts.
     They start at 9AM (hour from now, but next week calls will
     overlap. I am proposing to make call 1 hour earlier UTC
     specific.

    -   Cameron: an hour earlier for Mozilla would be in conflict with
     one of our main standups

    -   Heather: then expect a doodle poll, and we may cancel next week
     till we figure stuff out and find a new time.

-   WG Proposal:

    -   Heather: We have been working to get out a WG proposed working
     group charter. This is on the back of less formal discussions
     at TPAC. Some Concerns on group name and if it overlaps on
     solid working group proposal. Name clashes with “Web Identity
     and Discovery”. I created a poll to test some of the names.

    -   George: The names feel too broad

    -   Tim: the WG doesn’t need to be the spec name

    -   Cam: I don’t think it is a problem to be broad

    -   Heather: Web ID Assertion WG

    -   Tim: the goal here isn’t to auth or ID but to “Assert”

    -   Heather: Looks like Identity Credential WG is the front runner.
     I can make a revised poll. But for now lets shift to FedCM
     issues

-   FedCM Issues

    -   Yi: I think we can do 1st and 3rd then 2nd and last. For issue
     497 (provide developers more visibility of auto
     re-authentication). This is a new boolean to see if user
     mediation occurred during flow. Intent to ship in 120 in
     Chrome. Will fail silently and have bad UX. Can have browser
     show error with new exposed field and here is a link. It’s all
     optional or user can choose not to do it at all. From the demo
     from 2 weeks ago we also sent intent to ship in Chrome 120.

    -   Nicolas: For revocation (issue 496) the idea is the rp lets the
     user-agent know some federated account used by FedCM is no
     longer valid. This lets the user agent send a request to the
     IDP as well as tells the user agent to modify the connected
     accounts so that auto re-auth no longer works with the account
     so the account is treated as new instead of returning. We have
     a proposal that the RP call IdentityProvider.revoke and also
     pass an account hint for the account the RP wants to revoke.
     The user agent will send request to IDP to say possible
     account to be revoked and the IDP will return to user agent
     that can be revoked. In order to do revocation will have an
     endpoint in config url. This will be optional, IDP doesn’t
     need a revocation endpoint unless calling the “revoke”
     endpoint. I will create a PR soon and send it for review.

    -   Nicolas: issue 427, IDP don’t need long response in account
     endpoint. The IDP may include some domain hints in account
     response. These are the accounts they belong to. In the get
     call, rp may send some domain hint (similar to login hint).
     IDP will only show accounts matching hint unless hint = \* in
     which case accounts with any domain hint will be shown. We
     appreciate any feedback, will create a PR soon.

    -   Chris: Question - When you use the \* to match any, is that a
     regex look up?

    -   Nicolas: the intent is not to allow regex, we have heard no
     requests for regex matching. We only got requests for matching
     specific types of corporate accounts. Otherwise the \* allows
     matching all accounts that have “domain hints”. I understand
     how the regex confusion could be a problem. Likewise if there
     are cases for regex style filtering could be useful.

    -   Chris: yeah a string of bytes is not the same as “any” and need
     to keep that separation in mind.

    -   Ben: Just wanted to re-iterate that my growing feedback is there
     seems to be a lot of new logic with each feature request. Want
     to avoid scope creep, we are trying to focus on a specific
     more narrow use case.

    -   Nicolas: I think that’s reasonable and we don’t want to
     implement every feature idea we come up with. That is a step
     in the right direction. Some of the use cases however require
     doing stuff before user has granted permissions.Hard for me to
     gather solutions based on that reason.

    -   Ben: exactly, as I look at the features, these methods are
     intuitive in the micro but becomes confusing and conflicting
     in the Macro.

    -   Nicolas: devs might be given the choice and need a different
     prompt. Still I think somewhat of an open question. So do we
     prefer a simpler model, or a very specific model?

    -   Achim: On the\* = Any, I don’t get the use case because if i
     just exclude the hint I will get any account anyway.

    -   Nicolas: the \* allows you to get all corporate accounts while
     filtering consumer accounts

    -   George: Is this a discovery problem? The relying party is
     helping the user discover which account to use for this
     action?

    -   Nicolas: yeah we don’t want people to try ones that will fail,
     so this lets the feature only show relevant accounts so it
     doen’t waste user time.

    -   George: maybe there’s value to looking at this with the login as
     a discovery mechanism. Whether you use FedCM or something
     else, need value to say how do we use discovery to use the
     cont URL as opposed to a different FedCM piece.

    -   Nicolas: this is the official FedCM prompt so we don’t always
     communicate what nd how something is surfaced. This links
     accounts from IDP to RP. We are doing it in such a way that
     only the user agent knows. The RP and IDP might not know at
     this point

    -   George: that’s why leveraging the ser agent and let it flow
     across mechanisms could be a useful thing.

    -   Chris: that’s why I asked about the Regex George

    -   Yi: I agree with Bens point about FedCM being bulky. Basically
     the idea would be once a user passes through the FedCM api,
     maybe the user agent can get out of the way since the user
     already authed that. Things like whether the RP is okay with
     that. Are they okay with 3rd Party cookie access. Shouldn’t be
     scary but more meaningful. May want a new pass (not a
     different pass, like I described. In this way high level API
     could be all over the place

    -   Ben: I’ll look at the issue and comment. I think giving the 3rd
     party cookie storage access would give access and credential
     management. Maybe the discovery is the more interesting piece.
     Otherwise this could be browser getting Out of the Way
     options. I know in proposal 3 it got turned into deveral prs
     in FedCM

    -   Heather: something to be said that at the end of the day the
     existing id protocols , can streamline FedCM for all
     concerned. Google team did you wanna discuss any other issues?

    -   Christian: I’d like to discuss button flow (Issue 442). This
     issue was opened by Ben. If you aren’t logged into the
     specified IDp you can’t use FedCM ATM. Proposal to add mode
     attribute to specify you want a button flow to help users with
     the identity field. If not logged in will go to login url and
     kick back to user. Prototype
     ([<u>fedcm-button.glitch.me</u>](http://fedcm-button.glitch.me)).
     If no user gesture then treated like before, if there is a
     gesture then treated like before. Anyone have thoughts?

    -   Wanpeng: quick Q, was the user that was clicked produce a
     generic pop-up or API pop-up?

    -   Christian: yes the pop-up is supposed to be the more regular IDP
     login view.

    -   Wanpeng: do we have a way to simplify? Maybe fold them into 1?

    -   Christian: little tricky, no way for IDP to say which account
     signed in. One is to let the IDP tell us which account signed
     in. Alternatively make account request, that’s something we
     could do. Haven’t really played with that or done user
     research. Don’t necessarily have plans to play with that

    -   Achim: in line with the commentary, letting IDP deal with that
     is right approach, for sequencing for the user, it’s a bit
     weird, question is how is it shown? The windo may disappear
     and another comes. Mayube multiple pop-ups fpor claims
     transfer.

    -   Christian: I ge thtat if you combine it with cont on it becomes
     an awkward flow

    -   Achim: because the pop-up isn’t pinned to the top level pane.

    -   Ben: I think you get into the model of if we can add a function
     call in the pop-up it would let us bypass the call in
     question. In the current model of FedCM we could add a feature
     for this, but users who don’t use Google accounts might be
     confused by this.

    -   Achim: yeah this interaction needs more uniform
     positioning/behavior

    -   Ben: I’d add that the pop-up is not very universal and mobile
     hostile compared to redirect

    -   Yi: wanted to add one thing, today we don’t let IDP know RP
     before consent, so we need a seperate UI to let IDP know which
     RP it is. Heard from Tim at TPAC when we need IDPs to let
     folks know what’s in. Should use that RP client ID.
     Repurposing redirect flow in pop-up window. Just want to
     acknowledge trade-off

    -   Achim: Is there intention to restrict behavior in the pop-up?
     Assumption that process always ends at known origin. IDP has
     to do a bunch of redirects. I was asking is there a future
     intention to restrict it?

    -   Christian: no intnet to restrict except that all calls from same
     origin

    -   Chris: proxies might originate from somewhere other than sign in
     origin. FedCm doesn’t get in the way of requests from
     different scopes. Is that the right way to think?

    -   Christian: FedCm is not friendly to re-directs. A requests to
     account rest endpoint\]. If making a background req might be
     fine but we don’t do client side redirects.

    -   Chris: if redirects don’t work then MFA won’t work, AND it could
     impact proxies.

    -   Christian: yeah we don’t have a solution for the proxy problem.
     We only allow redirects in the login flow and errors (anything
     opening pop-ups allows redirects)

    -   Chris: Same thing for Duo and Passkeys. You can see the concern,
     if FedCM gets in the way, will be difficult to adopt it.

    -   George: in closing, I have seen folks advocate for both
     federation, which may use a passkey, plus adding a passkey at
     the RP after sign federated sign in. Not always passkeys and
     do another passkey at the RP until such time as can be checked
     back with IDP.

    -   Tim: That is an antipattern. The use case with federation +
     passkeys is a sign up flow where you use an identity provider
     (federation or identity wallet) for initial account data, and
     then create a passkey with the RP, and never use the IdP
     again.

 

Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, co-chair)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

-   Alexandre Nderagakura (Not affiliated)

-   David Waite (Ping Identity)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)
