
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group nMembership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   [<u>FedID CG Chair nominations</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/blob/main/charter.md#chair-selection)

-   Update re: working group development

    -   [<u>W3C Identity Credential WG - WIP Charter</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MCbidJTEdeoarOuqaYOA_FV0w7PxJ-BBq4pgiJLcaBY/edit)

-   FedCM

    -   [<u>Use cases for Cross-Site Cookie Access through Storage
 Access API after FedCM grant?
 \#467</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/467)

        -   [<u>Some context on Chrome’s plans to implement prompting
     Storage Access
     API</u>](https://github.com/cfredric/chrome-storage-access-api)

    -   [<u>Iframe-origin in the FedCM UX is sometimes not meaningful to
 users \#449</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/449)

    -   (added)
 [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/465</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/465)

-   AOB

    -   next call is an Atlantic call (22 May 2023)

    -   29 May 2023 call will be canceled

Notes
=====

-   Kris stepping down as Co-Chair

-   Working group charter

    -   Tim Cappalli: Effort at FIDO alliance to see where we can invoke
 a wallet across devices. Discussion around what to ID creds
 look like on the web. Looking to solidify into a single path.
 Requesting set of claims from wallet as an MDOC (ex: mobile
 drivers license) could come in different forms and protocols
 for the wallet. The charter is not a blocking step, we could
 get everyone to agree today and might not have a WG till TPAC.
 There’s an incubation project around Mobile drivers license
 hoping to turn into charter work, Accurately reflecting stuff
 in github repos, etc. Loose consensus on the core pieces and I
 am still filling a lot of text. The hope is the FIDO board
 will endorse this working group and early june we’d start
 involving W3C staff.

    -   Draft charter (I believe):
 https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MCbidJTEdeoarOuqaYOA\_FV0w7PxJ-BBq4pgiJLcaBY/edit

    -   Some extra context:

        -   [<u>https://github.com/WICG/mobile-document-request-api/</u>](https://github.com/WICG/mobile-document-request-api/)

        -   https://github.com/agl/identity-credential

    -   Sam Goto: Leif suggested some intersection with wallets and
 SAML?

    -   Phil: Maybe with certificate transparency but otherwise no.
 Would need to speak to Leif.

    -   Tim: we have the web auth working group where spec is developed
 but then a CG for ideas. I see folks hopped in the doc, feel
 free to add notes and share the link around.

    -   Heather: any questions/concerns?

    -   Tim: is anyone against this? I want people to tell me now not
 later

    -   Chris: there’s an interesting dif between CGs and WGs

    -   Heather: we need a WG or we can’t do a standard

    -   Tim: Yeah, FedCM needs a WG and the wallet stuff is evolving
 fast. If you aren’t familiar with W3C WGs, everything is
 public even if you can’t join

    -   Rick Byers: Just to be specific, chrome has “shipped” FedCM and
 we would love to work with that as another group comes along.
 We will have an origin trial for MDL API that Apple started.
 We feel urgency but will proceed with urgency in the standards
 track

    -   Phil: I see the latest version of Chrome Canary has a few
 different flags. Where could I find documentation?

    -   Sam: Thanks for looking at the flags, lots of experimental
 development and then giving more formal docs on how to use
 them. Many have corresponding github explainers. Some have
 instructions, some have nothing. To add to what Rick said, We
 are excited and feel urgency in the wallet API because when we
 were looking into the tracking problems like RP and IDP
 tracking problems learning about user behavior or sharing more
 than necessary at sign up, there’s much to like about the
 architecture and address some of these concerns. Ben/Cam
 please look more in the space, it has some properties we have
 been looking for for a while

    -   Tim: If anyone has a brave contact please send them a message

    -   Heather: ping them in the Privacy CG

    -   Kris: I have a friend at Brave I can ping as well

-   [<u>Use cases for Cross-Site Cookie Access through Storage Access
  API after FedCM grant?
  \#467</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/467)

    -   Johann: a quick intro, we are currently implementing prompting
 storage access API. Wanted to share with the group it is
 exciting for the storage access api, during the development we
 had some questions for FedCM.

        -   1\) What happens when Storage Access Api (SAA) is showing a
     FedCM grant? They are trying to be similar, and send a
     high entropy identifier through FedCM, should the access
     just be auto-granted

        -   2\) we see many people with login related use cases. We are
     not big fans of people using storage access when they
     could use something like FedCM so can we just offer
     storage access automatically?

        -   Some concerns on 3rd party cookie access. So my big question
     is from the IDP side, are there any features FedCM doesn’t
     have that Storage Access could give to unblock adoption of
     FedCM?

    -   Kris: For Sales force it will come down to “how do you deal with
 a saas provider with many domains? Will FedCM be integrated
 with First Party Sets? (FPS) is FedCM just for auth,and using
 SAA? If we have an issue needing to use FedCM across the board
 we’d need to know that. Where are the lines drawn between all
 the answers?

    -   Johann: So you would use FedCM for user experience, but I am
 looking for what are we lacking, like I am hearing Cross Site
 Cookies?

    -   Kris: yes, it’s for the auth

    -   Johann: to what extent is it realistic to build APIs for this
 passing so they reveal less info to the IDP/RP?

    -   Kris: it’s a little realistic, we need a lot of context FedCM
 Might not supply, what’s the role trying to do different
 things? Logging in through Client domain versus going to
 client services. Hard for FedCM to know what details it passes
 along so would nice to also have SAA. And the reason I am
 leaving Co-chair is I am leaving Sales Force

    -   Heather: something I’d add, we had great meeting at IIW for
 FedCM vs CHIPS vs SAA. Sam have you seen those notes?

    -   Sam: no I don’t recall the notes, just

    -   the exercise.

    -   Heather: see
 [<u>https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ogZcN1RFjrlu-CfCyNt2cCfhEk-Pc2JzczuG2GSBPG8/edit</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ogZcN1RFjrlu-CfCyNt2cCfhEk-Pc2JzczuG2GSBPG8/edit)

    -   Cyndee Sugra: Identity customer segment director at elsevere. I
 am tasked with spear heading info gathering and what it means
 for customers in publishing world, Getting customer queries
 worrying about FedCM. Lots of confusion around IP Access, I am
 not the technical contact, I am strategy/contact. I know
 there’s some collab there for the publishing industry. Any
 documentation that I could get for us and our customers and
 how it relates to identity and access.

    -   Heather: Seamless access group highly engaged in this effort.
 The IIW meeting had a lot of good stories in this area. At
 least where things stood, we found a functional path that we
 wanted to make more efficient as a user experience and want it
 fed back to FedCM community work.

    -   Cyndee: good that’s what I have been reporting.

    -   Johann: thanks for pointing that out cyndee, I’ll take another
 look and see if there’s any overlap/common solutions

    -   Sam: Tim can you give guidance on the proposal Johann brought up
 based on 3rd party cookies from FedCM prompt so we can make a
 case for the change.

    -   Tim: I think it’s userful but same problem of needing resources
 to prototype.

    -   Sam: Is there a process to gather if this would help for MS?

    -   Tim: I am trying to have that discussion.

    -   Phil: just to echo, some IDPs might need 3rd party cookies but
 would be nice to see what the actual use cases would be.

    -   Chris Phillips: One thing we have encountered is difficulty
 tracking the flows. Curious to hear from mozilla/chrome where
 if things aren’t showing up in dev tools then how do we know
 we are developing correctly (missing tooling)

    -   Johann: We are putting more focus on tooling for Devs.

    -   Chris: I’d encourage you to lead with Dev Tools

    -   Johann: I agree and I will take this to the team.

    -   Kris: Wanted to add, I understand timing and tools, but to
 reiterate, if we know where the teams are, which tool/api to
 solve what problem, then we are looking at all the initiatives
 so we can find an architect. If you can tell us in each use
 case what technology would mesh to which issue, that would
 help us give feedback

    -   Ben Vandersloot: Agreed tooling needs to be there. We want
 canonical examples rather than adhoc ones. Mozilla hears the
 feedback and will keep it in consideration

-   [<u>Iframe-origin in the FedCM UX is sometimes not meaningful to
  users \#449</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/449)

    -   Yi Gu: Some discussion in the thread, we are looking for
 feedback on this issue and if not then we can go to next issue

    -   \*crickets\*

    -   Heather: Martin had some follow-up thoughts

    -   Yi: yes but does anyone in the meeting have thoughts?

    -   \*more crickets\*

    -   Tim: No direct feedback, but talk to Steven from SPC. Same issue
 on showing top/embedded frames

-   (added) <u><https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/465> (Web Driver
  Commands)</u>

    -   Christian: we have a PR to add webdriver commands (for browser
 automation APIs) that could be used for site testing. We were
 hoping to get commands from other implementers. Ben Cameron,
 any feedback please let us know if you have comments or we are
 good to merge.

    -   Ben: We will take a look and comment in thread.

    -   Nicolas Pena Moreno: Similar thoughts for my PR. wanted to let
 people know it is coming for a few small “features” like login
 hint to let IDP trim accounts shown by user agent, or rp
 context, or user info API for enabling IDP to query user
 account info from within IDP iframe. Would appreciate people
 who can take look and leave comments.

    -   Phil: how extensible is the RP context?

        -   ‘To Phil: for the RP context API, we are proposing to use
     \*static\* phrases/strings. If you have use cases that
     could be handled that way, please comment in the github
     issue and we can go from there :)’

    -   Nicolas: good question, it’s not very extensible, is enum, going
 to show up in user agent UI, don’t want it to show up in rp
 messages. That said if you have specific use case with need
 for new string, then as long as it’s reasonable we could add
 it.

    -   Phil: sure I’d need to look at it to understand it.

    -   Sam: Ben/Cam we followed up on the suggestion to re-use login
 status api as opposed to making our own. Apple agreed this is
 directionally correct so maybe we should meet and converge.
 Similar to what CG, editors, semantics, but it seems like it
 makes sense and from a timing perspective we want to be code
 complete before end of Q2

-   Misc

    -   Phil: I was wondering if there was anything in particular you
 want us to look at/test in terms of IDP/RP relationships or
 user consent. If so let us know

    -   Sam: maybe we can follow up before the next meeting to be better
 prepared.

Zoom Chat
=========

16:02:43 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

Scribing doc:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O7Rn8Aj4rsYWohdEP61lnGdgkai0xTZFQgm7XEA0RBM/edit\#

16:03:11 From Christian to Everyone:

ah sorry

16:03:36 From Christian to Everyone:

can I suggest adding https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/465 to the
agenda? I'm sorry I didn't mark it as agenda+

16:09:21 From Rick Byers to Everyone:

Draft charter (I believe):

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MCbidJTEdeoarOuqaYOA\_FV0w7PxJ-BBq4pgiJLcaBY/edit

Some extra context:

https://github.com/WICG/mobile-document-request-api/

https://github.com/agl/identity-credential

16:15:16 From Tim Cappalli to Everyone:

Replying to "Draft charter (I bel..."

Thanks Rick! That's it.

16:15:27 From Tim Cappalli to Everyone:

Reacted to "Draft charter (I bel..." with ✅

16:15:32 From Nicolas Pena Moreno to Everyone:

Also
https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/blob/main/explorations/HOWTO-chrome.md

16:19:12 From Sam Goto to Everyone:

Ah, thanks Nicolas for sending. Yes, Phil, this is a good set of
instructions on how to try some of the features under development behind
flags. There are a couple more that are poorly documented, but we'll
follow up momentarily with more info.

16:19:31 From Tim Cappalli to Everyone:

Reacted to "Also https://github...." with 👍🏻

16:19:32 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/467

16:22:01 From Phil Smart to Everyone:

Thanks, Nicolas. Thanks, Sam. Very happy to test from an IdP/RP
perspective these new features, just wanted to read about them more.

16:30:18 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

R&E meeting notes from IIW:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ogZcN1RFjrlu-CfCyNt2cCfhEk-Pc2JzczuG2GSBPG8/edit

16:39:25 From Chris Phillips to Everyone:

thanks, appreciated..

16:40:19 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/449

16:41:08 From Phil Smart to Everyone:

Does Firefox have a similar FedCM implementation?

16:41:19 From Christian to Everyone:

firefox's fedcm impl is in progress

16:41:26 From Phil Smart to Everyone:

Reacted to "firefox's fedcm impl..." with 👍

16:41:28 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/465

16:41:35 From Ben VanderSloot to Everyone:

Reacted to "firefox's fedcm impl..." with 😃

16:43:10 From Nicolas Pena Moreno to Everyone:

https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/470

16:45:36 From Sam Goto to Everyone:

In case there is time, I wouldn't mind a small 5 sec plug to this issue
too Heather:
https://github.com/privacycg/is-logged-in/issues/53\#issuecomment-1547782246

16:46:07 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

Reacted to "In case there is tim..." with 👍🏻

16:47:57 From Yi Gu to Everyone:

To Phil: for the RP context API, we are proposing to use \*static\*
phrases/strings. If you have use cases that could be handled that way,
please comment in the github issue and we can go from there :)

16:49:10 From Phil Smart to Everyone:

Thanks! I will take a look

16:49:49 From Christian to Everyone:

fyi next monday is a canadian holiday so some of us will likely not
attend

16:50:00 From Phil Smart to Everyone:

Yi, I just added that to the meeting notes if that is OK. As this thread
will disappear I assume

16:50:13 From Yi Gu to Everyone:

Thanks Phil!

16:50:17 From Phil Smart to Everyone:

Reacted to "Thanks Phil!" with 👍



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   Rick Byers (Google Chrome)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (OKTA)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, Co-chair)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)

-   Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)

-   Cyndee Sugra (Elsevier)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd)

-   Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)

-   Shuran Huang (Google Chrome)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   David Huebner (DAASI International)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)
