# FedID CG call notes (Atlantic), 14 August 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Achim

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Achim

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
         Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
         Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   Upcoming conferences of interest (see
     [<u>wiki</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/wiki/2023---List-of-Identity-and-Related-Conferences)
     for full list)

        -   OAuth Security Workshop - 22-24 August

        -   W3C TPAC - 11-15 September

        -   IIW - 10-12 October

        -   Authenticate - 16-20 October

-   FedCM issues

    -   [<u>Login Status
     API</u>](https://github.com/privacycg/is-logged-in/issues/53)

        -   We didn’t manage to get a meeting in the last Privacy CG,
         the next one is in August 24th

        -   Chrome needs a final answer a couple of weeks before M119’s
         branch cut (need time to write/review CLs), which aligns
         with TPAC.

        -   What should we do if Apple isn’t responsive in the repo/spec
         PR in time?

            -   Option 1) Continue with the IdP Sign-in Status API (it
             is the same, just a syntax difference)

            -   Option 2) Write the Login Status spec in the FedID CG
             repo

            -   Option 3) Other options?

    -   [<u>not-yet logged in
     IDP</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)

        -   <u>I think we have overall agreement that we should find a
         way to address this</u>

        -   <u>Question is now “how”</u>

-   [<u>Draft
 charter</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/blob/main/charters/Proposed-WG-WebIdentityCredentials.md)
 process update (next steps)

-   [<u>TPAC Draft
 agenda</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12PLJQHrTCwFDcLeBvOiH3RjYHuVCF1a9ljYyPUj-S3o/edit)

-   AOB




Notes
=====

-   Heather:

    -   See scribing doc for upcoming event in September - See also the
     wiki link, which has more meetings listed coming up also next
     year

    -   On the draft charter - we have a draft charter posted now after
     a view iterations. Please leave comments on github.

    -   Next step will be with the W3C strategy function to give
     guidance on the charter and the next steps to be followed. The
     general process can be seen here -
     [<u>https://www.w3.org/Guide/process/charter.html\#advance</u>](https://www.w3.org/Guide/process/charter.html#advance)

-   Chris:

    -   Is there a session in September where remote participation is
     possible?

-   Heather:

    -   TPAC is in September and yes - remote participation is possible.
     We have timeslots in Seville. Agenda can be found here -
     [<u>TPAC Draft
     agenda</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12PLJQHrTCwFDcLeBvOiH3RjYHuVCF1a9ljYyPUj-S3o/edit)

    -   Let's head over to FedCM - we have two items on the agenda:
     log-in status API and the handling of not logged in users.
     Sam?

Sam:

-   Original Trial for IDP Sign-In Status API announced in last weeks
 call. Starting with Chrome 116, Desktop only. OT on mobile with
 next release a month from today

-   OT last usually 3-4 iterations before an intent to ship. Chrome
 would like to move toward with I2S and release the API

-   Open Items - convergence wion the login status API. Tried to do that
 4-5 month ago with PrivacyCG expressed general interest. Also
 discussed this with Jon Wilander last TPAC where he seemed to be
 in agreement on the Sign-In status API. We have an urge now to get
 from alignment to actually write stuff.

-   As discussed last week, reach out to PrivacyCG (agenda+) but the
 meeting was canceled. Next one is scheduled for Aug. 24th. Which
 is too late for Chrome to make the branch cut

-   Chrome would like clarity before the 119 branch cut (hard timebox
 from Chrome's end). The branch cut will coincidentally align well
 with TPAC timing wise. Need feedback for a final solution there
 and not brainstorming anymore.

-   Can’t get Apple to give feedback, what to do now if that is not
 possible?

Cameron:

-   If Apple is not chiming in, we (Mozilla) have an idea how we want
 this to go. A baseline we targets for this

Sam

-   In alignment with Mozilla about the baseline/mental model - there
 seems to be general alignment, but need to write code and the urge
 is to move this to be more concrete

-   Our goal is to increase the chances of it to be as compatible as
 possible between the different implementers.

Heather:

-   How about forking the code and work from there.

Sam

-   That's one option - put it into the FedCM spec in such a way to be
 able to pull it out later and make good guesses to expect to make
 this work. No need to fork, but just add it to the FedCM spec with
 the goal for it to be pulled out of it

-   That would be a option, such that it could be what FireFox and
 Chrome would target

-   Seems there would be enough coverage with Sam, Ben and Johann
 involved

Ben:

-   We can talk about that on TPAC, it's on the agenda. Frustrating that
 there is no feedback

Tim

-   Hot take, move it into FedCM. Most simple thing ever discussed, this
 has been dragging on for more than a year now

Ben:

-   This seems to be a reasonable thing to do at this moment

Sam:

-   Will write a spec PR for FedCM in such a way that it could be pulled
 out. In case Apple wants to move it later, make it easy. If they
 want to make different design choices it's going to be
 complicated. All we can do is ask, but if feedback is not
 available in time we can do our job

Tim:

-   This provides the best balance to have a proposal for TPAC. TPAC is
 the deciding vector and you have an instance path forward

Christian:

-   How to name the header?

Sam:

-   Use a non IDP specific name. Implementation in Chrome is identical
 to the Sign-In API, just the header name is different.

Chris:

-   What about all the open issues, while we are moving to a WG. Lots of
 unresolved issues, open questions how to deal with that.
 Specifically to Google as they are shipping

Sam:

-   Lots of open issues, some smaller, some larger. Last big
 architectural problem is the design of the IDP Sign-In status API,
 to have a sane design. Lots of features missing (sign-in to IDP,
 multi IdP) but we have a sane design

-   We can incube missing features, incubate here in the CG and then
 move them to the WG. Not expecting all issues can be resolved
 before move to the WG

Heather:

-   We are going to have an ongoing dance about what incubates in the CG
 and what moves into WG. Already expressed that what goes into the
 WG is not feature complete , but it's not a mandatory feature.

-   Lots of things continue to work unrelated to what moves into the WG,
 that is important to keep in mind. As for the details a bit of
 learning exp. to find a process

Ben:

-   Hard time drawing line between architectural completeness and
 missing features. Specifically Sign-In to IDP. This seems a
 substantial change still. It does not seem an accurate reflect
 that we have a sane design if this is missing

Tim:

-   WG continues working, should not expect to have no open issues in
 the WG. Not having any issues would also be a red flag. Need to
 figure out the alley of discussion between these two groups, not
 such rigid lines

Chris:

-   Thanks, that helps. Some embedded things in the details, which are
 key pieces. Let's call them out as first class issues and a
 productive use of time to do that

-   Thoughts on that, good idea? Seems like a productive use of time

Sam:

-   Let's start with labeling and follow up in the group. Many
 mechanisms available, classical foundation topics and go from
 there.

Chris:

-   Timing wise - is September the time to have those things, this or
 later w.r.t to timing

-   Is the working group further up than September?

Heather

-   WG processes will take some time, maybe Jan?

Wendy:

-   Standards politics - group has done good things, asking other
 implementors for input and using meeting opportunities and repos
 to follow up. TPAC is another good chance to raise questions
 in-person. If deliberate silence is the answer that’s also worth
 knowing

-   Charter - consider if there are red lines that might keep people
 from participating is an important question.W3C Patent Policy
 requires a royalty-free commitment (or exclusion) for things
 in-scope of charter. People might be concerned to protect patents
 that could conflict with this scope for entirely different
 reasons. A direct conversation might help with that.

Heather:

-   Takeaways - there will be lawyers involved and January might be
 optimistic

Wendy

-   Always a possibility

Sam ..

-   Closing on this, the recommendation is writing a part of the spec
 for IDP Sign-In as if it was a separate spec. Push at TPAC to get
 an answer from Apple/PrivacyCG as to whether that should move out.

Phil (from chat)

-   Is there a way for a user to see which IdP’s they have ‘signed
 into’. (For IdPs that have called the Sign-In Status API)?

Yi (from chat)

-   re phil: I'm not expecting a native UI to show all the IdPs that
 have called the API. Currently the only use case of the
 IdpSigninStatus API is FedCM so users can only get a sense of
 signed-in IdPs from a FedCM UI. Given that the UI is triggered by
 RP, we should probbly only show the IdPs that the RP has specified
 instead of all IdPs.

-   In the future if the IdpSigninStatus API (or LoginStatus API) has
 more use cases, it's possible to integrate all IdPs that have
 called the API into a browser settings page.

**Not Logged-In**

Sam:

-   Ben notices that FedCM does not gracefully handle / suck in case the
 user in not logged in with the IDP. FedCM cannot operate unless
 the user is signed into the IDP, it's a missing functionality.
 Let's fix it but how?

<!-- -->

-   Consumer Login, vs Educational/Enterprise vastly different. None of
 them is more important, but there is a subset of the problem which
 is substantially different . Consumer is often times called social
 login

-   FedCM simply dismisses if the user is not signed-in (based on FedCM
 IDP Sign-In Status). Could show a popup window to allow the user
 to sign in with the IDP and we continue with the flow. This
 matches our intuition. Open question is how and who is/should be
 able to control that. There are some related discussions that need
 to take place (add account, ….)

Tim:

-   Is this the discussion from IWW where we discussed it the browser
 needs a client ID?

Chris (from chat)

-   agreed, this turns the browser into a client someone signs into..
 may be a pathway to harmonize other protocols.. and set
 appropriate release settings

-   agreed—&gt; with Tim’s comments on the client recognition challenge.

Tim (from chat

-   and I think maybe it is OK that the browser is a client in this
 case, we just need to think it through

-   ​​maybe it is a dedicated endpoint for this purpose that doesn't
 redirect users off to some default service

Sam:

-   Related, but not exactly the same. For consumer IDPs you can go to
 Facebook/Google to login, without using a client

Tim:

-   Even for those that support that the users establish a session, not
 logging into an IDP service. Not every IDP has that, for example
 office.com. Not a desired pattern

-   We have to discuss if the browser is a client here. That has to be
 part of the discussion: Is going to that site (in the popup) the
 same as going to a site using an OAuth client

Ben:

-   Sam mentioned were in general agreement as it relates to the not yet
 logged in case, wanna push back on that. Specifically as it
 relates the degree of browser involvement in the AuthZ use-cases
 surfaced questions, maybe a stripped down version of an identity
 credential would make sense in addition if you don't want this
 more involved FedCM flow. Browser stepping out of the way.

Sam:

-   Ben can you clarify on being not in agreement? Are you referring the
 IDP Sign-In Status API

Ben:

-   No in relation to the not yet logged in API

Sam:

-   Agree - convergence on that it being a problem only (not logged in),
 but neither FFox nor Chrome know the solution (Ben: fair). Open
 design space, but agreeing on the problem often 80% of the way

Ben:

-   It is a concern / scary moving to a WG, with such a large open
 design space. Where the issue might be solved for some parties
 only, but not others. A big open issues in a core area.

Chris:

-   Can you clarify the use of authorization in this context

Ben:

-   Referring to the recent discussion around attributes which is still
 named AuthZ in the issue.
 [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/477</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/477)

Chris:

-   Caution must be taken on authorization, any data is self attested in
 this case. The real information is low quality. Same with any
 other attribute that passes throught FeDCM, there is concern if it
 passes though it could be twidelled. The integrity of the chain
 needs to be quite high, that is not clear at this time

Ben:

-   Referring to “AuthZ” which raised concerns for us on the level of
 involvement the browser has

Sam:

-   Couple comments. Ben not in disagreement, FedCM is very heavy weight
 for IDP. Happy to see how to make it easier, maybe
 storageAccessAPI?

-   Mental model - for some IDP are willing to take pay that price for
 FedCM, some that do not you have the case for storageAccessAPI

Ben:

-   Agree, i will have a proposal by TPAC for a lightweight extension
 for storageAccess API

Sam:

-   Both should not be mutually exclusive, just wanted to continue
 pushing on the heavy handed approach that FedcM is.

-   Chris - You mentioned Self asserted / fungible which I think are a
 bit of here. When twitter signs a jod saying a specific user is a
 twitter blue subscriber its not self asserted nor fungible as its
 signed and asserted by Twitter. Same for Stanford for you vouching
 to be a student.

Chris:

-   Agree is a rat hole called assurance, urging people to be cautious
 about authorization. People must have a critical view on trust, if
 email is the only bootstrap thing as anyone can get one.

-   FedCM is just a transitive relation to the IDP, must be cautious not
 to make the impression of it delivering high quality data.

Heather:

-   As Particiapant - FedCMs job is to make the user understand what is
 happening as it relates to information passed from the IDP to the
 RP and that level assurance and trust should be out of scope for
 FedCM

Sam:

-   Website / RP makes an editorial judgment to trust an e-mail coming
 from an IDP, it is the website not the browser making that choice.
 Its not the browser responsibility and is not able to figure out
 the trust model.

Heather:

-   We must make sure the browser keeps out of the way as it relates to
 the trust relation between RP and IDP and everything else that
 needs to happen

Sam:

-   Posted a proposal about what our mind is about that issue. Any
 Feedback from participants yet?
 [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)
 . We have a sketch how to start with that

-   Mental model is something like a flag, where the RP can specify to
 open a window in case the user is logged out of the IDP

Heather:

-   Please add an agenda+ for next week Sam, currently not able to add
 the tag.

Phil:

-   If you open a pop-up, is that window identical to a normal window
 that can follow redirects?

Sam:

-   Roughly yes - window.opener is not available, no post-message to the
 website

-   You would not be able to pop-back to the website, by design, not
 sure if this brakes anything yet

Phil:

-   On mobile a new fullpage window?

Sam:

-   On chrome a CustomTab with a read only URL bar, each browser might
 have a different choice. Equivalen window.open without
 opener/referer

Heather:

-   Draft TPAC Agenda is coming together, please drop notes in the
 google doc. Looks awesome thus far, sorry i'm missing TPAC

Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation, co-chair)

-   Brent Zundel (Gen)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Matthew X. Economou (RDCT)

-   Win Shih (University of Southern California)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

-   Nicolas Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)