# FedID CG Notes - 22 May 2023 (Atlantic)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Cameron

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   [<u>FedID CG Chair
 nominations</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/blob/main/charter.md#chair-selection)

-   [<u>Draft Working Group
 Charter</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MCbidJTEdeoarOuqaYOA_FV0w7PxJ-BBq4pgiJLcaBY/edit)

-   FedCM

    -   [<u>Use cases for Cross-Site Cookie Access through Storage
     Access API after FedCM grant?
     \#467</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/467)

    -   [<u>Iframe-origin in the FedCM UX is sometimes not meaningful to
     users \#449</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/449)

    -   [<u>Add WebDriver
     commands</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/465)

-   AOB

    -   29 May 2023 call will be canceled; 5 June call is a Pacific call

Notes
=====

-   Working Group charter

    -   Heather: Looking for folks to offer comments. I am particularly
     interested in the scope. People have given feedback on the
     ways the need for working group can limit participation. What
     we are most concerned with is that we have an adequate
     charter. Any thoughts on scope?

    -   Phil Smart: So the charter has elements that seem to be more
     what I expected from the wallet side and not the browser JS
     API side. Is that separation accurate or are we trying to
     cater to both?

    -   Heather: what’s happening in the wallet space has a strong
     overlap in the consent component so the working group scope
     expanded to include the wallet scope instead of trying to
     align 2 different groups

    -   Achim: I think this makes sense and is better than trying to
     create 3 different APIs without a specific scope in mind. The
     API surface should be as identical as possible. Might want to
     initiate a wallet transaction or other behaviors.

    -   Brent: Glad to hear others agree wallet stuff should be in
     scope. In regard to the user-agent mediates/concent/ISO/IEC
     18013-5 verifiable credential. Is the goal to have that
     minimal scope? Or are we imagining it’s okay for the API to
     support this or the minimizing of these things? This is the
     space I have been in, so what’s this group thinking?

    -   Heather: I’d like to keep the scope tight and it’s not easy
     keeping the api “mixy matchy”

    -   Achim: this lends back to the scope of what is approved.
     Currently there’s a set of attributes shown in the chrome
     implementation. How much flexibility will the API offer? The
     problem is in how you define consent, the browser can’t
     ful-fill all those reqs, that’s something the IDP also needs
     to contribute to. That’s gonna be different than like an email
     or profile info and specifying quality or must be NDL, etc.
     And do we need MFA?

    -   Brent: Some protocols are like, here’s the api being setup. You
     have a presentation req with a presentation definition, but
     what level are we at? Both?

    -   Heather: these are good questions these are the first time we
     have examined the charter. I imagine we will want to dive into
     that further, but we haven’t really decided 1 way or the
     other.

    -   Brent: over at Decentralized ID foundation, we have a case where
     any verifier can get any request from any set of information
     where in some cases the API has been seen as too verbose or
     too restrictive.

    -   Heather: one core foundation to our work is, we are trying to
     get the browser out of the way, while enabling protections for
     the individual that they want and/or need. We are not trying
     to be an ID protocol, we just want to facilitate and help the
     user make an informed choice. That’s what we are trying to
     stick to.

    -   Phil: You can use decentralized identifiers for auth reasons
     based in web authentication. It could potentially do
     authentication, but then they seem competitive.

    -   Achim: In general, the APIs being discussed aren’t about
     authentication, the user at this point is already
     authenticated. The notion that some flow triggered through
     such an API for a verifiable credential interaction would
     trigger another consent moment, so the IDP triggers off the
     identity of the user, and then pull up the wallet based on the
     interaction. Whether for security, or some other interaction
     regardless of the devices involved. I don’t see a direct
     conflict with web Authn. Apple wants to look at how this could
     be integrated with passkey stuff

    -   Phil: makes sense, IDP could do auth but doesn't need to. FedCM
     is considering being a mediator like a wallet, then auth isn’t
     a good role for it.

    -   Achim: in the wallet space from the EU, we will have regulatory
     elements that we need to keep in mind to make sure we use EU
     standard protocol for communicating with wallet

    -   Heather: I was at EIC and I was on a panel with Daniel
     Gloschlauger, and we discussed “What is a wallet” and that it
     can mean so many things

    -   Wendy: From my perspective I am trying to anticipate some
     challenges it might face in the wider community. One problem
     is breadth vs scope while accommodating interoperability. Can
     have broad scope with lots of detail, where the spec doesn’t
     get to interop but still holds a number of use cases, or a
     narrow use case but doesn't serve someone with a different use
     case. What is the sense of the goal here?

    -   Heather: My opinion is not to get too broad, or else we just
     seem like we are the same as another group. Staying focused
     helps clarify the why as opposed to getting pushed into other
     work.

    -   Wendy: I’ll add that this can also come in the listing of
     deliverables, currently there are none. Is this starting with
     a single spec? Suite of specs? What is being incubated?

    -   Heather: agreed, we need to add for FedCM but also want to get
     ahold of privacy cg chairs to find where they want to promote
     storage access api

    -   Ben: Storage access API will be integrating directly into HTML
     spec

    -   Heather: so given what we have so far, does Martin Thompson see
     a potential for how Privacy CG might want to use this as a
     home for things?

    -   Ben: is there a venue for comments or is it just inline in
     google doc?

    -   Heather: just in line

    -   Brent: I don’t want to just jump in but I’d be happy to help
     draft language

    -   Heather: would this be better in github for managing changes

    -   Brent: I would like it in github

    -   Cameron: isn’t it more typical in github vs google doc?

    -   Heather: start in google, move to github

    -   Wendy: yes that way when the larger community moves into it they
     can see what has already been done without rehashing past
     discussions.

    -   Heather: one thing I still need is what will be the deliverable.
     What do we think of the docs? Drop them in as Qs in the doc.

 

Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot(Mozilla)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation)

-   Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)
