# FedID CG call notes (Atlantic), 9 October 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe:

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
          Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
          Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   Announcement: [<u>WICG Identity
      Credentials</u>](https://github.com/WICG/identity-credential)

-   [<u>WG Charter PR
  \#3</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/pull/3)

-   FedCM issues

    -   Add the IDP sign-in status API to the spec -
      [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/436</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/436)

    -   Feature request: allow revocation -
      [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/496</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/496)

    -   Hosted Domain -
      [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/427</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/427)

    -   A not-yet logged in IDP has no route to success with this flow -
      [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)

-   AOB

    -   Next call: Atlantic call, 16 October 2023

Notes
=====

All of the requests have been dealt with except for PR \#3, one of the
ones coming out of the REFEDS working group.

Tim: It is about very particular details about the protocols.

-   Reading from the PR \#3

Achim: It didn’t make it into, we don’t want to include things about
versions in the charter. The addition about intermediaries is already
covered inside the charter.

Phil: Multi-factor authentication might be a too specific usecase to be
covered by a general solution. It would need to support for example MFA.
That’s why it was included as an addition to the charter.

Tim: There is nothing in the charter text that says we’ll not cover
this.

Heather: Always the balance between - too particular, if its actually in
scope or if it is out of bounds once the working group is at work.

Phil: The concern is that if we don’t include it in the charter then it
won’t be done.

Achim:

Brian: Its an area that’s lacking in the current specification. That
makes it warrant of a special inclusion, it makes sense to add it to the
charter to make sure its covered.

Tim: Isn’t it covered by the authorization API?

Brian: It works with the Google usecase but for a broader set of
participants it might not be covered, but if its covered by
authorization API then we don’t.

Tim: The not-logged-in-yet usecase is not covered by the authorization.
But we don’t want to be too specific in the charter.

Sam: There are two usecases, similar but distinctively different. Which
one do you mean?

Brian: Logged in isn’t a binary event, for example more factors due to
risk assessment.

Sam: (shared link)
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)
Take a look at this and see if this covers the usecase. The FedCM API
doesn’t cover it completely.

Achim: We are just building a new mechanism. Anything that is needed to
fulfill a usecase, and what is currently in Chrome and later become the
standard, should be covered by the text in the charter.

Phil: You are not yet signed in, Authorization, Sign in URL, Continue
on-URL, you have flagged you are signed on but the IdP session has
ended. Are there more issues?

Sam: Login Status API shows a mismatch UI if you say you’re logged in
but you’re not and covers that usecase. Do let us know if its not, test
it out.

Achim:

Sam: Stop using AuthZ, break it down into multiple parts - naming a few
- “continuation API” the ability for the IdP to say that I need to have
more interaction with the user, this may include like gathering
authorization or parental consent. “Mode API” which refers to a button
flow, or widget flow, when the user is signed out also changes modality
instead of the top right corner to something thats more centered on the
screen. “Account API” is also added. We have previously made a terrible
mistake in calling everything AuthZ and now we are breaking it apart.

Heather: The text needs to be specific and generic enough to meet our
needs and make it possible for us to bring it forward to the W3C.

Heather: Tim is that everything we need for PR \#3?

Tim: Yes, I am not looking at it right now, but for everyone looking at
it. Achim could you merge it?

Achim: Yes.

Heather: Specific FedCM issues, and Phil can you help us segue?

Phil: In the sign in URL popup that occurs if you sign in but you have
no accounts. There is a way where I’m also calling another FedCM API
which gives me two popups, etc. &lt;describing UI complete mayhem&gt;
The question is, if there are intermediaries (and there will be) the
FedCM doesn’t do this well right now, will this also eventually fall
into the trap of navigational tracking and the privacy concerns around
that and will they be faced out?

Achim: From a super high level, I think we will have to expect popups
and redirects, the privacy thing: the browser will know and expect whats
going to happen and so the redirect and navigational tracking concern
won’t be an issue.

Achim: The gut feeling is that when there is a multitude of IdP:s and
steps on the login journey, letting an intermediary take care of it
makes most sense.

Sam: This is the most constructive way we can move forward, test it and
show us how what we’ve done so far suck. It never occured to us, it
almost feels like Inception and its crazy stuff for us. Its not strange
that it doesn’t work well, because we didn’t create it with this usecase
in mind.

A few things occurred; how does this work without the browser mediation?
Isn’t it the case that the RP and IdP will open a multitude of popups.

Phil: Its handled by redirects.

Sam: Does it actually surprisingly work, even if its a crappy UI?
Partially works?

Phil: It works, surprisingly. Sucks and partially works.

Sam: A good time to go through proposals. What user experience do we
want to build, and constrain the user experience by the threat model.
Any user experience thats within the threat model we can build. Lets
come up with the UX that we want.

Phil: Thats for the bit that does the popup, the signin url, where you
initiate FedCM, if you’re not signed in then there is no popup.

Achim: You can try it with the latest Canary.

Sam: We are so thankful for you all trying, we merged “Mode equals
button” on friday.

Achim: &lt;showcased the new Mode equals button&gt;

Phil: Wanted to do it protected, nested FedCM flow, now its going to
FedCM to a popup navigational window and then back to FedCM.

Wanpeng: FedCM testing, where we can find it? Is it publicly accessible?

Achim: Yes.
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/fedcm-testing</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedcm-testing)

&lt;discussion in chat about blocked JS&gt;

Matthew: I have no control over the users browser, so I can’t mandate
what they should have enabled. My users come to me with third or first
party JS turned off and we try to make my stuff still work. But this
seems to require first party JS to be turned on.

Sam: First party JS will have to be turned on, do you have RPs that have
it turned off?

Matthew: I don’t know how many of my users have it turned off, but my
services are set to fail gracefully - partially because of accessibility
issues.

Sam: Isn’t it the same with third party cookies?

Matthew: Yes. In the case of JS, you may have to interact with the page
manually without, but it still works right.

Sam: Yes you wouldn’t be able to use FedCM but your page wouldn’t break.

Heather: A lot of privacy group concerns (navigational, link decoration,
etc.) are coming but we are not working on a resolution to those right
now.

Matthew: If I’m running an IdP where FedCM is in play, is it a potential
security risk where I could force my link decoration to work?

Sam: Link decoration works with and without JS enabled, and it works
with and without using FedCM.

Matthew: Still not sure how it works.  
Heather: You might be able to take a look at the code and figure out how
it works.

&lt;Phil and Sam offering up to describe how FedCM is meant to work.&gt;

Sam: The mental model so far is to iterate on JS-API, and after you know
what the API should do you could fall back to what html-elements could
do. That’s a plausible future implementation. Http headers and html
elements are something to fall back to.

Heather: We have some thing on the agenda but I’m not sure we have the
right people are on the call for them. They were some FedCM issues.

Sam: We would need Ben for the Spec PR, I can go over some of them but
you’re right.

Heather: We’ll have another Atlantic call next week and lets wrap up for
now. We’ll have a rich agenda with things from the IIW. Is there
anything else you want to cover in the next couple minutes?

Phil: When the navigational stuff be looked at in Chrome?

Sam: Its already looked at. Bounce tracking, they are supposed to be
backwards compatible. It buys us a lot of time. Take a look at that.
There is also a flag you can try, and see if your. If your flow works in
Firefox and Safari then it also will work in Chrome, thats the idea.

Intend to ship link:

[<u>https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/Lxi7LfRyI4c</u>](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/Lxi7LfRyI4c)

Sam: There is also some more information coming out in the next couple
weeks.

Heather: Thank you!

 

Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, co-chair)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Zacharias Törnblom (SUNET)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft, co-chair)

-   Achim Schlosser (co-chair)

-   Matthew Economou (Research Data)
