# FedID CG call (Atlantic), 26 June 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron Boozarjomehri, Michael Knowles

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
     Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
     Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   FedCM

    -   [<u>Authorization</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/477)

-   [<u>Draft Working Group Charter</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MCbidJTEdeoarOuqaYOA_FV0w7PxJ-BBq4pgiJLcaBY/edit)

    -   Authorization: yes/no?

-   AOB

    -   3 July call CANCELED

Notes
=====

-   [<u>Authorizing non-profile oauth scopes #477</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/477)

    -   Sam Goto: Recap of 477. This needs to be done, we need an answer
 to the problem. Some share intuition from Fx would be
 appreciated.

        -   The Why: There are significant parts of the openID and OAuth
     flows that large IDPs depend on that depend on 3rd party
     cookies. This is a way in which providers struggle without
     3rd party cookies. Fits into short term desires for
     identity providers to cooperate.

        -   How things break could be expanded on.

    -   Vittorio: Would be useful to id some concrete examples that lead
 you to this (How absence of 3rd party cookies break OAuth
 flows). I am concerned using Authorization just because we are
 using scopes. Might be a subtlety but to me, the use cases
 help define if the scenarios where things break are used for
 auth or used for issuer

    -   Sam: The use cases are - We see a large number of flows affected
 are (internally called) “requesting the basic profile” which
 we can mitigate. This is basic profile info (mediate basic UX
 info). Somewhere between 80% & 90% captures this. The
 “mediated Auth Flow” allows the browser to ask the user if
 they’d like to share their info. For the other 10-15% of flows
 request more from the user profile. Examples: Calendar Access,
 Users Social Graph

    -   Vittorio: the thing that’s not clear to me is how the 3rd party
 cookie play a role. In some scenarios they want more than the
 ID token, but it’s not just scope, there are many parameters.
 Like claims parameter for setting up sharing.

    -   Wapeng: Basically as an RP you can use an access token at
 anypoint. Is that addressed here? If not can we move this
 issue back to the RP. Give the RP the content of ID token and
 then use access token to request more data via an API.

    -   Cameron: Suggesting to create an API so that the RP and IDP can
 request info without input from user?

    -   Wanpeng: RP always has to go to the IDP, so can we get them to
 just share more than the users ID Token, so the access token
 can be sent back. If the RP gives access token to someone. We
 can let the RP handle the ID token and Access Token to
 streamline the FedCM API. RP needs to take some control over
 user data. If everything is in browser, then we can have
 attacks mining the browser.

    -   George: I don’t think we can have the RP manage consent in
 regard to the user giving access to the RP itself. This gives
 the RP the ability to just give consent on behalf of the user.
 Consent needs to be between user and Auth server

    -   Sam: To answer Vittorio’s question of what “breaks”. After you
 go through the first flow FedCM unlocks a lot of abilities
 like revocation and Front Channel Logout and allow more going
 forward. It’s not this flow, it’s how the browser gets that
 knowledge from the user to allow other flows. The proposal is
 the ability to construct this auth flow in a non-mediated way
 via the IDP via a pop-up window. Instead of going to a
 mediated auth flow, the pop-up window allows the IDP to use
 its own words to get user auth.

    -   Ben: Just to raise another concern, does this need to be browser
 parsable? Why does this need to not be in a big black box blob
 that the IDP and RP don’t see?

    -   George: The reason it needs to be here at some level is the
 browser is mediating the flow. The way ID works today we need
 to make sure that it isn’t being abused for tracking moving
 forward. The core aspect was how to solve the 3rd party cookie
 problem, this goes into things impacting OpenID Connect and
 SAML. These all start being interesting in a browser mediated
 way where I do need an access token for a single page app or
 backend server. Should FedCM target that because it solves 3rd
 party cookie issue, or are there other use cases we need to
 take on as well as it’s just 1 part of other ID flows.

    -   Heather: What I thought was more or less our goal was for the
 browser to ascertain if a user is cool sharing data between
 IDP or RP and then get out of the way. Is There a
 relationship? If yes then get out of the way. 1) Am I
 misunderstanding/oversimplifying that? 2) In the
 [<u>Primitives by Use
 case</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Primitives-by-Use-Case)
 what do 3rd party cookies do that is problematic.

    -   Achim (from chat): Sam us suggesting additional parameters to be
 passed, and in this case the IDP is free to show its own UI if
 needed. But the parameters could also be in some sort of blob
 is preferred. The browser is not interest anyhow in these
 cases. not interested in the parameters to be clear as it has
 know way of knowing what they mean

    -   Sam: On the first, this is trying to take the browser out of the
 flows. The proposal is to remove the 2nd mediated flow going
 to the IDP. On the 2nd, much like what you see in the mediated
 flow, this specific construction addresses what happens when
 3rd party cookie goes away. The only reason the mediated flow
 is to observe the user trusts this person as the IDP. This is
 in the realm of the concern for 3rd party cookie. Theres
 10-15% of traffic this cannot serve because of the additional
 API access requested. To ben’s point this is a black box but
 can’t be ignored in the context of 3rd Party Cookie
 deprecation. This could be a different param, delegate instead
 of mediate.

    -   Vittorio (from chat): again, terminology is going to me things
 really complicated for us. Authorization goes well beyond
 scopes, and scopes are not necessarily authorization. I'd feel
 so much better if we could find some other moniker for this,
 or we'll set the wrong expectations

    -   George:

        -   If I understand Sam correction, in scope of RPs who wanted
     to leverage the sort of sign-in widget from Google, for
     those use-cases (10-15%) also wanted an Access Token

        -   Couldn’t do Pop up at all because of 3PCD and therefore need
     FedCM

        -   And Also need the additional scopes of OAuth

        -   So it is the case that it is just these additional 10-15%
     that we are adding this AuthZ capability?

    -   Sam:

        -   Not quite – Google Sign-In has several products

        -   One is One-Tap widget flows

        -   Other parts of their traffic would be accessed via the
     traditional Sign-In With Google button

        -   Those would be the cases where they would get access to
     Google Drive, etc.

        -   But those flows need 3PCD after the user consents

        -   They need token refreshes for single-page Architecture pages

        -   There is also Revocation that uses 3PCD

        -   Don’t use Front Channel logout, but that would 3PCD

        -   Generally want to get out of the way after observing the
     first signal

        -   But that first signal isn’t expressive enough in these cases
     where they need more than basic Auth

    -   George:

        -   Seems like we’re designing a new identity flow that will
     (eventually) take the place of OIDC

        -   Seems like there will be a lot of additional use-cases than
     the basic AuthZ

        -   Do we want to go down that direction

    -   Ben:

        -   Good point

        -   Protocol - you hand over the request which includes a nonce
     that is controlled by RP and can include arbitrary content
     and

        -   IDP can also respond by a black box which could contain
     anything

        -   Allows basically any kind of communication at that points

        -   Could contain just cookies to be set via document.cookie()

        -   Basically allows anything

        -   Part of the challenge is that the IDP does not get brought
     up in this context

        -   If the user isn’t logged into the IDP FedCM breaks –
     currently don’t have an answer to that.

        -   Seems like a big thing that needs to be addressed

    -   Chris:

        -   So much

        -   A lot going on in this restructuring attempt of the flow

        -   Not a flat space

        -   Strength of their associations 0– fidelity is incredibly
     important

        -   NIH need high-strength / need confidence that when someone
     has signed in, it is a true MFA sign-in

        -   If we let the protocols do what they do, would not need
     heavy-weight constructs that George was alluding to.

    -   Heather:

        -   More or less a question for Sam

        -   Where should that question go?

    -   Sam:

        -   Uploading a mock

        -   Have an intuition that I didn’t explain myself well

        -   Not the best mock (same issue \#477 - first mock)

        -   FedCM - has Multiple accounts

        -   Need Users - email address, name, picture – constrained to
     ask that

        -   What you get back from the Browser is opaque to the Browser

        -   Could be idToken, but the Browser doesn’t know

        -   So, to Ben’s point, the Browser does get out of the way
     after user consent

        -   As Ben’s suggested there are parameters getting sent, such
     as nonce, that get set

        -   Whole request goes into the IDP

        -   This isn’t getting worse or better through this extension

        -   A lot of what has been discussed today is part of the threat
     model of FedCM

        -   Proposal is to replace the 2nd mock

        -   Browser gets on the way, mediating sharing the user’s
     profile

        -   But in AuthZ the browser is not expressive enough

        -   We can construct this prompt because the browser knows what
     email / picture

        -   But browser doesn’t know about Calendar Access, etc.

        -   So replace that 2nd part of the flow after the account user
     – allow user to jump into pop-up window where IDP can
     create content to ask its own question about AuthZ

        -   There is a URL bar at the top

        -   As opposed to mediated Authentication flow, it is an
     IDP-created where the IDP can ask user for access to
     scopes

        -   “Website is asking user for access to Social Graph” for
     example

    -   Phil:

        -   If you’re going to show list of accounts, IDP may be listing
     an account, IDP may / may not include accounts that are
     appropriate for that request

        -   And also the

    -   Sam:

        -   Issue of whether the account list may not be appropriate /
     sufficient for the IDP

    -   Chris:

        -   Notion that comes to mind: Duty of care to the user

        -   We’re going to share these things

        -   But also there’s going to be these black boxes to allow
     addiitonal info to go back and forth

        -   Not sure if the user would even be able to understand
     everything that is going on

        -   So, can we say that the duty of care is being upheld

    -   Sam:

        -   Potentially not reading the screen correctly

        -   That is the IDP asking the user the question using the IDP’s
     own words

    -   Chris:

        -   Oh - so this is after the account chooser has happened

        -   So, this is the IDP presenting the question, in a pop-up

        -   Need to consider implications of that more…

    -   Sam:

        -   If you read the text carefully and look at the mock, it
     addresses the issues

        -   No way a Browser would be able to

    -   Chris:

        -   How do you know the pop-up is a trusted question from the
     IDP?

        -   If there are 17 attributes to be given to the RP those would
     show up here?

    -   Sam:

        -   The account choosing part is separate from the
     consent-of-scopes part

    -   Ben:

        -   Needs to inform UI elements

        -   Needs to guarantee end-to-end to IDP

        -   Need to consider case of tracker masquerading as IDP

    -   Brian:

        -   Question of this being independent of account chooser flow

        -   And things going off the rails if no existing session or
     that would meet requirement of session

        -   Not separate

        -   In the browser flows IDP renders the UI depending on
     specific context at time of the construction (need step-up
     flow? Have session expired? etc.)

        -   So, there is previously typically a relationship between the
     two

        -   So the need to do more at the time of requesting the
     authentication and is not entirely separable from the
     perspective of Authorization

            -   sam in response to Brian (chat): Remains to be seem if
         desintangeable enough such that the browser can
         construct a account chooser prompt that prevents
         enough trackers.

    -   Wanpeng

        -   Question: Currently the UI is designed for extending the
     scope

        -   Tried demo – doesn’t work -0 can’t see the whole flows

        -   Didn’t see user consent in the flow

        -   Users will not know how much information will be handed over
     to the RP

        -   But this AuthZ might mitigate it, as it allows the user to
     provide more control

            -   Yi in response to Wanpeng (chat): here's some high level
         introduction including end to end flows:
         https://developer.chrome.com/en/docs/privacy-sandbox/fedcm/

    -   Chris (chat)

        -   Chris: there’s a lot to digest on this -- super hot take; I
     have a sentiment that FEdCM would intercede, then get out
     of the way from SAML and OIDC flows. This doesn’t look
     like getting out of the way and when released, no IdP in
     the world will supoort FedCM to bootstrap this if the site
     has to render it’s own consent stuff in the real estate.
     Again, a lot to marinate on with this.

    -   Ben:

        -   Hot take: I think the degree of IDP UI inserted into
     Chrome-control UI is perhaps the reasons and fears that
     drove Proposal \#3
     ([<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/3</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/3))

        -   Permission driven prompt and then navigate to the IDP page
     for them to control it from that point on.

        -   Perhaps as we see this creep occur then we might need a more
     drastic stepping-out-of-the way version

    -   Sam:

        -   Yews that is a plausible option for us too

    -   Heather:

        -   Next week is US holiday so will cancel it

        -   Sam: Maybe re-do the mocks a bit and put a thought-cloud or
     similar to identity what is rendered by the IDP vs.
     Browser vs. RP

        -   Will prob continue this conversation after that (in 2 weeks)

        -   Maybe discuss the browser-getting-out-of-the-way model in
     more detail then?



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Alexandre Nderagakura (Independant)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)(first half)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft Identity)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Brent Zundel

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

-   Matthew X. Economou

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Zacharias Törnblom (SUNET)

-   Ted Thibodeau (OpenLinkSW.com)
