# FedID CG call notes (Atlantic), 3 April 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Cameron

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   FedCM

    -   [<u>Preventing silent timing attacks</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/447) \#447

    -   [<u>Enforce CORS on the Identity Assertions endpoint</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/428) \#428

-   Proposals

    -   [<u>idp-sp-storage API</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/4) \#4

    -   [<u>Offloading Trust</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/5) - \#5

-   Planning for IIW (April 18-20)

    -   Cancel 17 April 2023 Atlantic call?

-   AOB

    -   Reminder: next call is a Pacific call (10 April)

Notes
=====

-   FedCM repo

    -   Heather: lots of back and forth on Timing Attacks and CORS.
 Wanted to highlight IIW, so postponing call on 17th. For the 2
 issues on FedCM (\#447 and \#428) primarily between Mozilla
 and Google. Will put Martin on the spot.

    -   Nicolas: for Martin, we are drafting a reply before the next
 call on the issues.

    -   Sam: I think the more important one is the timing attack issue.

    -   Christian: any opinion on which endpoints should use CORS please
 leave them in [<u>the
 issue</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/428).

    -   Tim: Vittorio, is there guidance around CORS?

    -   Vittorio: there was some discussion about adding it but I don’t
 recall anything specific. The discussion was on single page
 apps and discouraging some folks from adding it at all if we
 don’t want to support single page apps. The BCP for OpenID
 Connect and OAuth

    -   Tim: Some allow CORS by default, and logout flows can be enabled
 but not by default

    -   Vittorio: the main issues are token and metadata endpoint. Need
 support on token endpoint. Currently a decent number of
 providers support it but not broadly adapted and can expand
 your attack surface. Tim I think you do support it with Okta

    -   Cameron: will try to sync with martin and give feedback

-   Proposals

    -   Heather: been discussing proposals from FedCM hackathon
 (especially what issues they close). What IDPs the R&E sector
 has that this will resolve. Other items included: FedCM
 currently interferes with SAML protocol, question of anonymous
 vs pseudo anonymous users, structural difference in terms of
 origins vs endpoints, question of minimal trust (implied don’t
 trust anyone/trust but verify). I wanted to know what is the
 latest to know/address

        -   Last two weeks we've focused on the proposals coming out of
     discussions at the R&E hackathon from a few weeks ago. One
     recurring question that's come up is what gaps in the
     FedCM spec are these proposals closing? We've identified
     six on the March 20 FedID CG call:

<!-- -->

-   Scale (number of IdPs)

-   Interfered with at least the SAML protocol on a level outside of 3pc

-   Existence of anonymous/pseudonymous users

-   Origin vs endpoints

    -   Proxy services that confuse

    -   sending a session identifier from an IdP to an SP

-   Minimal trust of all entities involved

    -   sending a session identifier from an IdP to an SP

-   Session timing

Of those Scale was put at the top of the list because if we can't
solve that, the rest doesn't matter. It's a bootstrapping problem.

Given that, does anyone have an update from the last week of work?

-   

<!-- -->

-   Judith: Seems the question is “How to go from proposal to more
  focused items?” We have smaller issues and targets, can we move
  the proposal into a doc to get smaller, more targeted feedback?
  Move into a Google/Proposal doc, but need to be able to track
  changes. Kris’s question: “What’s a better targeted way to work on
  this”

-   Sam: I agree we need a procedural fashion. Maybe start with an R&E
  repo under FedID CG. Own repo with its own issues that are more
  isolated in parallel to FedCM repo. Hear concerns the normal FedCM
  repo is a bit all over the place

-   Judith: We’d be happy to put both proposals in that repo to make
  tracking work/changes easier

-   Sam: whatever makes folks feel most productive

-   Heather: We were inspired by FedCM, but for R&E these were new
  proposals on how to approach FedCM but these are not the same
  thing

-   Tim: This isn’t that different from where we started, just more
  complex than where we started. Probably just follow that same
  format for consistency

-   Judith: I think there were API changes for the proposals that would
  apply to FedCM that we need to refine in something other than a
  Google doc.

-   Heather: We’ll create a readme for that and can go from there.

-   Judith: I am Zacharias can work to get them moved and then need some
  guidance on cloning/pulling best practices.

-   Heather: can work on this process offline. Any further thought on
  the scaling issue for IDPs?

-   Judith: proposal 4 essentially says defer out discovery, make it so
  the browser knows what the user has chosen, but the solution in
  the proposal is push the discovery to the SP/Community. There’s
  the SP learning things about the community as the user pics. Could
  be something to call out as it addresses scale.

-   Heather: SP = SAML terminology for RP

-   Tim: and in FIDO the RP is the IDP

-   Sam: From a process perspective, perhaps it would be helpful to have
  another deep dive (maybe during IIW) to offer and see if we could
  do that?

-   Cameron: +1

-   Heather: agreed, were you hoping to do this on or off site?

-   Sam: I was thinking at IIW in a group or deep diving just for a
  morning and break for afternoon. This time maybe more technical or
  proposal focused

-   Tim: if you wanna do multi hour sessions, and there may be remote
  staff. Maye we do 1 big multi-hour session Tuesday and then do
  other stuff off campus Wednesday and Thursday. If I can’t host,
  maybe someone from Google can

-   Sam: we will have good rep from Google and Fx, will we get good rep
  from SAML folks?

-   Judith: yes some SAML folks should be there

-   Tim: and if we can pin down by next week, higher chance of apple
  staff going to offsite rather than IIW

-   Heather: for the folks who weren’t there when things were being
  developed, do you have questions for the group to answer? Silence
  = Compliance. Something we didn’t get to cover was the Proxy use
  case where the IDP or SP might be the same thing and
  intermediating the flow to many other parties and something we
  need to get to.

-   Judith: I think the current thing is the proxy is a specific use
  case and there are these middle things and there is a bridge that
  I am institution X and we saw maybe an example Bridge into Azure.
  Sometimes the proxy is on a service side/service provider where
  the product sign in kicks the user to some other login/auth
  service and then sends you to the appropriate endpoint.

-   Vittorio: that sounds more like a classical canonical Fed provider
  where you do one thing, get kicked somewhere else, translate what
  you need, and then send you back. To me, a proxy is between the
  requester and the thing you want.

-   Judith: the term is proxy and it might not be accurate but the point
  is the resource endpoint is not the same as the auth endpoint
  which can then resend you to another auth service, and that goes
  front he product the customer sees to the institutions hub, then
  the ID provider, and that could be many FedCMs deep.

-   Vittorio: to me, if the chain is made of re-directs then that’s not
  a proxy. I know something similar exists in enterprise, and I know
  Judith that you use proxy in your field, just worried it was
  confusing

-   Judith: yes we try to replace with “middle thing” It’s not just
  re-direct of same request it’s multiple request in chain

-   Vittorio: what I am saying is we are in a domain, and however we
  transition or remap in domain, then maybe it could be better to
  call it re-direction.

-   Judith/Heather: +1 just have issue with terminology

-   Judith: So for the SP/RP just knows the next hop and can only
  redirect users to the next entity and they need to be sent up the
  chain again but might not have an SSO session, and this is
  difficult because of lack of relations between parties

-   Heather: the browser needs to be aware of what the user is
  consenting to and being asked for

-   Vittorio: my favorite example is HBOMax login. Where are you logging
  in from? Are you coming from HBO or your cable provider? Are you a
  user or employee? We want to separate those lower building blocks
  from those high level APIs.

-   Judith: and my understanding is since Proposal 4 registers a users
  trust between RP and IDP that needs to be carefully communicated
  (ex: going from Harvard to COLC, do you trust that in either
  direction?) we need to carefully craft the info for that middle
  step. But in proposal 4 the RP figures out, asks user to commit to
  that pairing, and user ends up a what may or may not have been a
  middle hop, then that bridge is established and can continue on
  and on

-   Vittorio: I know sales force has tons of domains and does many
  redirects, how granular do we wanna get with all those little
  relations and exposing them to the user for consent? In pure
  consumer cases, they map to more complex cases that users would
  never contemplate. Ex: HBOMax still uses HBOGo endpoints and that
  bouncing is part of the legacy of the design

<!-- -->

-   Login Hint

    -   Nicolas: issue
 [<u>426</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/426), JS
 needs to specify login hint for login (like passing email for
 login hint). Currently hint is an opaque string, makes it IDPs
 choice how they want to filter to say email or ID. If we can
 use color to filter, then we can have a types array , but Sam
 had the idea to have the hint in the accounts
 endpoint.accounts have email ID and then a new field for the
 hints, such that if you pass this hint you should return the
 account that matches for that hint. Why do this? Then the
 browser doesn’t need to care bout how IDP uses hints. Uses the
 IDP provided filtering that can be matched per given account.
 Anyone here have thoughts/preferences between passing specific
 filters in call, or passing hints in account where the
 accounts would be larger but would be able to recycle fields
 like Email/ID

    -   Cameron: difference between hint versus account passing

    -   Nicolas: the second proposal adds a “hints” parameter of array
 of hints, would provide hints such as Email/ID of user. Adding
 login hints to work with FedCM. Let them know what user you
 want, and then filter based on user profile that you
 specifically want. Login hint is returning the User, you know
 the email of the user you want, but pass in say with a
 specific email. First time, login normally with FedCM. 2nd
 time the RP knows who you used in the past so they just show
 the account you used in the past for login hint.

    -   Vittorio: there are presidents in some azure providers using
 things like domain\_hint so you can inject this in a request
 and limit what options are presented to the user so it can be
 handled seamlessly. But this is not universal and need to
 already know what the option is. Otherwise without that you
 don’t get SSO.

    -   Tim: this seems similar to the WebAuthN spec

    -   Sam: for FedCM this is per accounts though, in fedcm this is
 public keys

    -   Vittorio: if the ID is a mnemonic identifier like email then it
 might map to many idps (guest in many IDPs). Just setting the
 identifier doesn’t uniquely/uniformly identify it. Need to
 show login and IDP, not ambiguous at all

    -   Tim: was just mentioning this paradigm also exists for other
 things

    -   Sam: in FedCM you don’t get to choose IDPs, where as WebAuthN
 treis to further streamline it

    -   Achim: can’t understand why to do this on the Get level, or is
 it just about being more flexible?

    -   Nicolas: proposal 2 more flexible because they can choose what
 to filter by where as proposal 1 requires agent to do more to
 filter

    -   Tim: proposal 2 is tightly coupled, where as proposal 1 is more
 “blind”

    -   Achim: for first 1 you could filter blindly by name, where as
 proposal 2 would filter by email or whatever is supported in
 the hint

    -   Sam: Vittorio and Tim, can you please check if how we understand
 OpenID works with hints please let me know.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, co-chair)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Judith Bush (OCLC)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta \| Auth0)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Zacharias Törnbloom (SUNET)
