# FedID CG call notes (Atlantic), 17 July 2023
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron Boozarjomehri, Michael Knowles

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
            Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
            Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   [<u>Storage Access API and
    3pc</u>](https://github.com/bvandersloot-mozilla/top-level-storage-access)

-   FedCM

    -   [<u>Authorization
        cont'd</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/477)

-   AOB

    -   [<u>TPAC
        meeting</u>](https://www.w3.org/2023/09/TPAC/schedule.html#monday)
        planning

    -   WG charter take \#2

    -   Nicolás is planning to talk about an update on
        [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/427</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/427)

Notes
=====

-   Storage Access API
    [<u>https://github.com/bvandersloot-mozilla/top-level-storage-access</u>](https://github.com/bvandersloot-mozilla/top-level-storage-access)

    -   Ben: If you have an iframe with user interaction you can call
        this API and get a dialogue to authorized top level cookie
        only for iframes with user interaction. A lot of IDPs don’t
        want that because the “user interaction” isn’t a typical
        guarantee. Top level storage access proposal, would resolve
        this with a “document.requestStorageAccessFor” to request un
        partitioned cookie access to resolve with a boolean based on
        the response from “navigator.permitStorageAccessRequestsForm”.
        Can claim sites, what URI, can request storage access for. If
        not, some user action required to see if need for user
        dialogue and re-direct to login. One says “as an IDP I am cool
        with RP”, and the other says “as RP I want cookies for IDP”.
        So the question is, how does it look? Does it make sense?

    -   Yi Gu: Whats the UX? What is needed for the flow to go through?

    -   Ben: the UX is similar to current storage access api with a
        similar opt-in dialogue. Maybe get a permission dialogue, go
        to IDP page, click on IDP, enable user interaction. For the
        “(Optional) User dialogue” this is where the dialogue would be
        shown.

    -   Yi: below you mentioned RP and IDP must be interacted with
        (Constraint 4)

    -   Ben: The dialogue in the rp page would need to show IDP domain
        for access to top level cookies.

    -   Matthew E: Why is the only interaction with the IDP login? Why
        isn’t logout a consideration? 2nd, why are iframes part of
        this&gt; I would never want iframes as part of login.

    -   Ben: This is the core interaction for login/logout flow. My
        takeaway from Vittorio is at some point the identity provider
        page is interacted with. Logout is still supported by top
        level cookie access from RP. in regard to frames, that’s cuz
        this is a storage access API and originally we use auth
        embeds, the iframes were the solution to supporting login in
        place of embeds.

    -   Tim Cappalli: Microsoft would look at this, but our concern is
        how scary the prompt it. Safari prompts caused severity 1
        reports because users didn’t understand the sign in flows.

    -   Johann: Some feedback I gave to Ben, personally I’d be very
        interested in how to leverage storage access API for prompts.
        To enforce some storage access API call, and surfacing that in
        the prompt in the identity flow, that sounds interesting in
        that context. I think that idea is interesting.

    -   Ben: Yes a chance to show more images and account info to give
        assurance of the entity requesting data makes sense.

    -   Johann: How do you feel about a more FedCM like prompt to allow
        for broader account connection and data sharing.

    -   Tim: in the ideal case there are no prompts. That will never
        happen but letting users know it is sanctioned tracking is
        ideal. If we ask large ID providers to make a change, it may
        be hard to justify going this route. If it starts to look/Feel
        like fedcm hopefully more people will push to adopt fedcm.

    -   Ben: Agreed, I would say this ask is smaller because no
        deploying extra APIs but I think I get it. 1 more thing as an
        open question to make it more palatable. An example might be
        Open Question 1. Request storage access is there.

    -   Chris Phillips: I am not clear on the iframe answer, idps say
        don’t use iframes. If the relying party has login, can you
        elaborate why the IDP would have logout? If RP has logout, why
        would IDP also have logout? RP clicks logout from RP but don’t
        get logged out of IDP causing it to auto-re-login later. I
        just want to test that with the work.

    -   Ben: once you complete the login flow you end up in the same
        space we are in for 3rd party cookies. If you logout on the
        SSO page then it should propagate because the RP would look in
        same cookie jar.

    -   Chris: IDPs strive to not do iframes, if we can we will push
        back on iframes to prevent MitM.

    -   Johann: 2 thoughts, 1) for iframe, in top level storage access
        will get made in iframes, top level storage access has that
        built in. 2) for the long term, I think the 2 APIs seem to
        server different paths where as long as we integrate with the
        right primitives they can theoretically co-exist.

    -   Vittorio: It’s true IDPs try not to have anything interactive in
        iframes. However there are many flows like session management
        that use iframes and it’s one of the few that are on the based
        to help with renewing tokens. The advantage of refresh tokens
        is you can leverage sliding sessions. IDPs don’t see iframes
        of evil. Just risk of seeing credentials. Scenarios where we
        see issues in 3rd party cookies.

    -   Ben: only reason to have iframe is from web platform perspective
        having a single cookie jar per document is nice. The way it is
        set up here is a bit icky because doc has to go into cookie
        jar as a top-level. But if there is an iframe it is cleaner –
        this document uses these cookies, this other document uses
        these other cookies. There could be a silent in-the-background
        treatment of cookies. And iframes would know where they are
        being embedded would allow finer usage of cookies in different
        contexts.

    -   Phil: Single logout is a mechanism to use iframes to log user
        out of multiple RPs. On IDP, initiate a series of iframes on
        each RP and execute logout URLs on each RP. Trying to work out
        the flow. Let’s say you want to do that mechanism. Normally
        you couldn’t interact with those RPs. Is it that if you can
        get an agreement from user to get 3P cookies, you could use
        those directly? Or do you need JS to be able to get and use
        the 3P cookies to do the logouts.

    -   Ben: The single logout on the IDP page, the RPs depend on the
        state on their own cookies, that’s not supported by these new
        APIs. THere might be an extension to support that logout case,
        but not directly supported by this.

    -   Phil: Wouldn't be iframing the IDP in general. Cross site nav to
        IDP and then back to RP normally not done in iframes – usually
        only top-level and 3P cookies only issue in logout case. 3P
        cookie deprecation could be more problematic for iframes more
        generally. For single logout case, this API is likely not
        appropriate for that.

-   Authorization discussion (is continued)

    -   Heather: Maybe rename this, as Authorization may not be
        completely appropriate

    -   Yi: Still aligning on names – Sam is still on vacation this week
        and (maybe next) so still aligning on the name issue. Nicolas
        will discuss Hosted domains

-   Hosted Domain support (Nicolas)

    -   Nicolas: Issue \#427 on FedID GitHub. Wanted to get impressions
        from IDPsw if this is something they would find useful. And if
        there are any additional constraints required to make use of
        it. Is this a reasonable addition to FedCM?

        -   Current proposal is very similar to Login Hint. Idea is -
            accounts can sometimes belong to entities (corporations,
            etc.). So, Hosted Domain allows for different names – can
            query IDP with Facebook.com but also Instagram.com, etc.

        -   So Accounts might have multiple Hosted Domains. So proposal
            is to allow IDPs to specify array of hosted domains that
            accounts belong to. So that would be in the accounts
            response endpoint. So when FedCM is called, the caller can
            pass in a Hosted Domain param. Only show accounts that
            match the Hosted Domains that are passed in. THen the
            browser fetches all the users’ accounts and the caller
            could specify multiple hosted domains and the browser
            looks for matches and the browser then only shows the
            accounts that match one of the specified hosted domains.
            Want to avoid the bad experience where the browser lists
            accounts that would be otherwise rejected by the RP
            (because they are not appropriate for that RP).

        -   RP may not know the emails domains or anything, of the
            different accounts, but knows the domains that area
            associated with the accounts.

        -   And we wanted to support multiple Hosted Domain strings due
            to the fact that RPs could own multiple domains.

        -   Also we’ve reserved the string “\*” - so this will filter
            out accounts that don’t list any Hosted Domain (such as
            personal accounts) to only allow accounts associated with
            domains. So that any account that has any HostedDomain
            will be accepted, and any accounts that do not have Hosted
            Domain will be rejected in the account chooser

        -   So those are the the main features of Hosted Domain that we
            are planning on building.

    -   Matthew: Not understanding. When would a RP not know which IDPs
        it allows? WHen would an IDP not know which RPs it allows?
        Even in a bilateral trust situation they both know what is
        allowed. Also in a multi-lateral situation, wouldn’t this
        whole user experience be handled by a discovery service? Why
        would browser need to get int he way fo that discovery
        service? Why is this necessary when federation metadata
        establishesthe trust relationship up front. Alslo the UX part
        is already done (eg.l, Seamless Access), so why does the
        browser need to get in the way?

    -   Nicolas: Why is it necessary? A bit of recap of how FedCM works.
        When the browser fetches the user accounts, it will not send
        to the IDP who the RP is. That is intentional because the User
        AGent doesn’t wnat to leak to the IDP the fact that the user
        is visiting the given RP. So it would not be possible for the
        IDP to know which RP the user is visiting and therefore would
        not be able to filter outthe account list.

    -   Matthew: How is it possible the IDP does not Know the RP. Every
        time I set up a website, I have to register the RP with the
        IDP and vice-versa.

    -   Nicoals: Yes, but that all happens before users visit the site.
        Asynchronously, the IDP and RP have to handshake with each
        other. So that’s already happened. This is when the user
        visits the csite and it fetches the accounts and the users’
        names and metadata about the sure. We don’t want to divulge
        which RP that the user is visiting.

        -   There is a separate fetch to the IDP

    -   Herather: Browser generally want to prevent Unsanctioned
        Tracking that trackers currently use. It’s a fundamental
        tension

    -   Nicolas: Concern is where the requests gets rejected after
        consent

    -   Vittorio: Near perfect instance of “told-you-so”. RP-less
        authentication is what FedCM introduces. Concept of signing in
        without divulging RP. Eg. a guest that is being admitted to a
        domain. THere is complex logic on the IDPs that might have
        been updated a second ago, and therefore is not easy to
        quickly inform the browser. The assumptions that FedCM makes
        start to fall short after going beyond the top 5 or 6 Consumer
        IDPs. If Engineers started to implement this, a lot of work
        would have to be done to end up with the same functionality as
        today, and maybe with a loss of control wrt today. Think it
        will be problematic to adopt FedCM in practice.

    -   Nicolas: Is it problematic bedcause FedCM?

    -   Vittorio: Tries to reproduce functionalikty that we already
        have, but that doesn’t gel very well with existing business
        processes. Eg., Authorization (loaded terms). THere are ways
        that we handle existing relatiosniphs in the IDP and we’re
        trying to extract that info - do a prefetch fo the critical
        info - biut took away the context (eg., RP) that IDPs use to
        jmake informed decisions about which accounts are viable and
        puts it into an unnatural place (eg., the Browser).

    -   Nicolas: Agree it’s not feasible to replicate all business logic
        in Browser UI. There will be cases where there are accounts
        that should not be used in an RP. And if the user selects that
        account, the RP may end up not being able to use it. If IDPs
        have complex logic that prevents them from using FedCM, then
        that leads to alternates, such as requestStorageAccess() – but
        those would have more generic prompts that are potentially
        more scary for users, which (as noted above) have other
        complications.

        -   Browsers are trying to provide different solutions to the
            issue of not having 3P cookies.

    -   Vittorio: It’s not always easy to decide whether an IDP si
        simple or not. If you take a decision that blocks you from
        (eg,. Using FedCM), thebn you have to backtrack – you start
        from a very simple service, but becomes over time multi-tenant
        and much more complex. So the simple scenario that FEdCM looks
        to address does not exist in practice3.

    -   Heather: Please continue to add comments in the GitHub convo /
        issues

-   TPAC

    -   Heather: TPAC is in Spain

        -   Confirm the Monday 11:30-13:00 slot, Tuesday 9:30-11:00 ,
            Thursday we'd like to have as an open slot, but if the W3C
            needs it, they can have it back.

        -   Note that Privacy CG has two slots on Tuesday - one
            immediately after FedID CG (11:30-13:00) and one at the
            end of the day from 17:00-18:30

        -   Also starting to rough-out the Agenda for those meetings.

        -   For those who are going to attend, please register in order
            to do room set-up and convo.

-   WG Draft Charter

    -   Heather: Throw out previous scope and re-do with tighter sfcope.
        Will send that out this week to Slack channel and see about
        initial convos / reactions

-   Next week:

    -   Heather: There will be usual Atlantic call



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   Matthew X. Economou (Research Data and Communication Technologies)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)

-   Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)

-   Alexandre Nderagakura (Independant)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

-   Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)
