  # FedID CG call notes (Atlantic) 10 July 2023
  
  - Moderator: Heather Flanagan

  - Scribe: Michael Knowles

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

# Agenda

  - Administrivia
    
      - Scribe volunteer(s)?
    
      - Reminders:
        
          - [<u>Community Group
            Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)
        
          - [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
            Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

  - FedCM
    
      - [<u>Authorization</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/477)
    
      - Testing instructions in Chrome
        
          - Enable chrome://flags/\#fedcm-authz on desktop Canary
            117.0.5860.0
        
          - Visit
            [<u>https://fedcm-continue-on.glitch.me</u>](https://fedcm-continue-on.glitch.me).
        
          - To use a single account, visit
            [<u>https://webid-fcm-idp.glitch.me/login.html</u>](https://webid-fcm-idp.glitch.me/login.html)
            and select "User with single account".

  - AOB

# Notes

  - (Authorization discussion continued)

  - Heather:
    
      - Where we ended up — how much should the Browsers be involved,
        and how much can the browsers get out of the way (and Ben’s
        proposal of how browsers can get out of the way but still get
        user’s consent)?

  - BenVS:
    
      - What is a vision of FedCM to have a minimal browser injection
        of no UI other than a permission dialog — I’m ok with
        accounts.\<whatever\>.com to send a message to itself on
        \<rp\>.com
    
      - If you only have a permission dialog, how does it do that?
    
      - If only a single JS call to post a message on that request.
    
      - From IDP perspective, does that look appealing? (is the first
        core question)

  - Heather:
    
      - IDP people?

  - Phil Smart:
    
      - Yes — the less the IDP has to change, the better

  - Vittorio:
    
      - If we needed to make a call, would want it to dovetail with
        what we
    
      - Should not require IDPs to add an endpoint

  - Ben:
    
      - Logistical follow-on
    
      - When user logs into the IDP
    
      - Somehow you log into your IDP
    
      - Presumably there is a linking page that says, yes this is
        linking my identity here with RP.com
    
      - Would a single message suffice for all the inter-domain
        communications?

  - Vittorio
    
      - That page might not be there, in a number of scenarios
    
      - First time a user shows up in the onboarding makes it so that
        the user can just go in — no interstitial — in a large number
        of scenarios
    
      - Same for application (when they do the enterprise license)

  - Gary Windham
    
      - In higher edu — very rare to have linking between RP and IDP
    
      - Provision on demand
    
      - Signing in to SP creates account on demand

  - Achim
    
      - IDP would say linking typically
    
      - For classic social logging — interstitial page may not be
        required, due to prior interaction that might have happened
        somewhere previously
    
      - Previous discussion contained dialog that the IDP might or
        might not be shown
    
      - Can that be skipped?
    
      - I assume yes?

  - Ben:
    
      - How do we give idea for letting user know that they can go
        from one context to another — cross-domain comms
    
      - Without using an interstitial
    
      - How do we get into the IDP’s top-level context
    
      - Was assuming interstitials are relatively common

  - Brian
    
      - Wanted to clarify on the linking page
    
      - From IDP perspective — comes from the IDP side, as IDP wants
        to control what info is shown to RP

  - Vittorio
    
      - Sounds like we're back to login status APIs
    
      - Only thing we can be certain is that user will somehow be able
        to prove themselves
    
      - Interactively is favorite
    
      - Or behind the scenes, where redirects carry SSO cookie
    
      - If you want to be as low-touch as possible, that is the
        minimum
    
      - Authentication is the one thing that will have happened

  - Ben:
    
      - \`So – “authentication” is the one thing that will be
        guaranteed to have happened

  - Vittorio:
    
      - Authorization is now used for more things than just
        Authentication
    
      - Don't want to exclude authorization from today’s discussion
        because they are all part of same semantic

  - Yi
    
      - Clarification: We prepared some screenshots and videos that
        could help

  - Heather:
    
      - Ben anything else?

  - Ben:
    
      - Wanted to follow up with — user logs in, authorizes with IDP,
        IDP could store token in browser associated with that IDP and
        that user’s account
    
      - Could there be a single token that could be accessed by all
        RPs?

  - Vittorio
    
      - That’s a tricky question
    
      - Today normally — you have artifact and you can come back to
        IDP and you are already authenticated with IDP
    
      - Want to be able to apply specific rules to each RP
    
      - One of the RPs be in a blocklist
    
      - So they won't see anything at all from IDP
    
      - Upside down — I have a token and want to show it
        
          - Could end up needing to rewrite protocols
        
          - And could end up losing visibility to info (in terms of
            which RP is requesting)

  - Yi:
    
      - \<presenting\>
    
      - First page user goes to RP want to sign in with IDP
    
      - AuthZ API — triggered by “continue-on” response from IDP
    
      - If user clicks on Sign-In with IDP
    
      - Today — will ask to share email / picture / email — gets token
        and shares with RP
    
      - But what if RP wants more than just email / picture / email
        (Oauth AuthZ case)?
    
      - Pop-up window, in that case —
    
      - Send OAuth calendar request to IDP
    
      - IDP will return ‘continue-on’ URL instead of token
    
      - Browser will render it using pop-up window (content rendered
        by IDP, not browser, to ask OAuth permission)
    
      - Asks user — user either says Confirm or Cancel in that Pop-Up
        to the OAuth / AuthZ request
    
      - Then, if it is successful, IDP calls IDP.resolve() with the
        token, and the browser passes that token back to the RP
    
      - All of this is in current Chrome Canary
    
      - Hopefully this answers some of the API discussions
    
      - (will send instructions to meeting notes)

  - Achim
    
      - Came to mind: why is there some disclosure text on the account
        chooser?
    
      - Assuming you want to do the Auth case
    
      - Might happen without giving any account info
    
      - User might just want to Authorize binding between two

  - Yi
    
      - Yes: There should be an option to show nothing at all

  - Wanpeng:
    
      - Original demo leads user to log into identity first
    
      - Does that work this way first?

  - Yi:
    
      - Yes — user has to sign into FedCM before

  - Wanpeng:
    
      - Any demos of where the user has NOT signed into the IDP
        before?

  - Yi:
    
      - Good point — two parts of this demo — first is FedCM; second
        is AuthZ
    
      - Only want to trigger this AuthZ if you are signed into the IDP
    
      - If you are not signed into IDP, you don’t even have an account
        with IDP that is known
    
      - If the user clicks on the Sign In with IDP button that conveys
        user’s intent to sign in to the IDP
    
      - Otherwise it is effectively the “IDP Button Flow”, where you
        sign in to the IDP first and then sign in to

  - Wanpeng:
    
      - Do you have a demo of that case?

  - Yi:
    
      - Not yet
    
      - But we have some other demos in Chrome 116 which shows the IDP
        Sign In Status flow where the user can sign into the IDP from
        FedCM
    
      - Will send a link to that Origin Trial in Chrome 116

  - Gary:
    
      - On that page in the demo with the pop-up, where the user has
        option to confirm or cancel
    
      - If they click cancel, what happens?

  - Yi:
    
      - If they receive cancel signal, then that is the user
        declining, so IDP will NOT issue the Token to the browser

  - Gary:
    
      - So it won’t issue the normal FedCM Token either?

  - Yi:
    
      - Correct

  - Gary:
    
      - In SAML there is a user page
    
      - IDP authenticates you
    
      - And then SAML will discloses some attributes to the RP
    
      - User can choose which attributes it wasn't disclosed to RP
    
      - So an all-or-nothing approach seems a bit heavy-handed

  - Yi:
    
      - Yes – we do have some early work on Selective Disclosure
    
      - Once the token has been returned, potentially additional UI to
        allow user to choose which items to show
    
      - In prototype mode (Sam has been workin on this)

  - Phil
    
      - SIgn-In with IDP — is that a new API?
    
      - It seems that that might have various other problems that
        FedCM is supposed to solve

  - Yi:
    
      - What part is the “new thing” you are referring to?
    
      - Sign In with IDP is a separate API
    
      - But the AuthZ is an additional API to the original FedCM

  - Phil:
    
      - So user will be presented with “Sign-In with IDP” or an
        account chooser
    
      - In R\&E, user is presented with sign-in chooser and then
        redirected, which could have issues with cookies

  - Yi:
    
      - \<presenting IDP Sign-In Status API mocK\>
    
      - Imagine this is the IDP sign-in status page
    
      - Once you are signed in with IDP, we will THEN show IDP account
        chooser

  - Phil:
    
      - If you’ve signed into the IDP as a user, why do you then need
        to again choose that account

  - Yi:
    
      - This is just IDP sign-in page

  - Phil:
    
      - Oh — so that is done in complete isolation of the account
        chooser
    
      - And only then you choose the account

  - Yi:
    
      - Correct

  - Phil:
    
      - OK — that is different flow than previously had thought
    
      - Should maybe document that a bit more

  - Achim:
    
      - IDP Status API — being introduced due to potential concerns
        for silent timing attacks?
    
      - Yi: Yes
    
      - Is there a potential path through this api in case the user is
        NOT signed in to the IDP?
    
      - Seems like a separate topic and much more complicated
    
      - Different than if the browser has a sign-in signal
    
      - One more question: if Chrome introduces AuthZ and we continue
        with it, then RP and IDP could always choose to leverage their
        own interstitial to approve login and which attributes to
        share?
    
      - So they could use account chooser and then a separate flow to
        show interstitial and any other info / consent required
    
      - Might be instances where the IDP needs additional assurances
        (such as WebAuthn) that need additional UI to allow this to
        happen

  - Yi:
    
      - Martin had asked Sam what this UI can unblock
    
      - Agreed that this is a different thing

  - Ben:
    
      - Think that there is some challenge: This is ballooning and
        starting to reinvent… makes much clearer the issue of: are we
        reinventing everything in the Browser that is currently being
        solved by every IDP in their own way
    
      - What is the benefit of putting these things into browser
        dialogues?
    
      - If we can do X where we could not before, that would be good
    
      - But might need careful consideration of where the balance lies
    
      - Piling on additional functionality needs to be consider

  - Heather:
    
      - \<not as chair\>
    
      - This type of growth-of-scope had been considered before
    
      - There was a reason we wanted to have the browsers to be as
        lightweight as possible
    
      - There is a need for browsers to be involved in the protocol,
        but might need to revisit this in view of this type of
        expansion

  - Yi:
    
      - Re: lightweight — browser shouldn’t be involved
    
      - This IDP still gives the page to the IDP — it is still
        IDP-to-user communication
    
      - IDP can ask user for permissions in the IDP’s own way
    
      - It is not the browser asking questions — it is the IDP asking
        its own way

  - Tim:
    
      - This is an IDP interaction UI — anything could be done there
    
      - Renaming away from Authorization would be good, and into just
        an “IDP Interaction UI” where the IDP can do anything that is
        required to get any additional information required to do the
        Authentication or Authorization

  - PHil:
    
      - SAML doesn’t have the notion of additional Authorization, so
        this might be new

  - Yi:
    
      - This requires a new endpoint to support
    
      - If the RP is requesting X information, we will send that to a
        different endpoint and get a new URL and continue it from
        there

  - Phil:
    
      - IDPs can do this today, but via redirect
    
      - So what is the problem this is helping with?
    
      - Is it 3P cookies?

  - Yi:
    
      - Depends on the use-case — will unblock some use-cases (e.g.,
        Calendar access, if they had granted permissions in the past,
        may not need to ask for that again)

  - Phil:
    
      - IDP can do that today as well — remember your decision on
        attribute consent

  - Vittorio (chat):
    
      - we introduced an authorization endpoint when OAuth popped up
        years ago. Creating a new one with similar semantic just for
        showing the same in a pop up will be a very, very hard thing
        to swallow

  - Nicolas (chat):
    
      - The new thing is just a continue\_on url, I don't think there
        needs to be an 'authorization endpoint', couldn't that url
        send the user to the regular authorization url?

  - Vittorio (chat):
    
      - the meta point is "more engineering work, attack surface,
        combination semantic" just to end up in the exact same place
        we are at today, but browsers are now happy.

  - Nicolas (chat):
    
      - well yea because current flows use 3pc, which also allow
        arbitrary tracking. so yes we are trying to provide new ways
        to do the same old things.

  - Alan (chat):
    
      - OIDC-centric? In the R\&E federations, it is already decided
        what an IdP is going to release to an RP for individuals in
        the system. \[ the IdP already chooses if it's going to allow
        an RP to talk to it — then there’s either agreed attributes to
        be released and/or a consent screen for release if not a
        pre-agreed \[s things work) release \]

  - Wanpeng (chat):
    
      - What is the original grant designed in the FedCM API? I mean,
        an existing user first uses the IdP to log in to an RP.

  - Ben:
    
      - Going off what Tim said: If this an “IDP interaction”
        extension, great
    
      - Having a clear next step for this to tie into
        not-yet-logged-in user would be good tie in to this
    
      - Answer to who makes the call and the API plumbing on how this
        would get fired (I know the user isn’t logged in and pop up
        the IDP login window)

  - Yi:
    
      - You want to bundle IDP Sign In and IDP interaction /
        continue-on thing together?

  - Ben:
    
      - Seems like they are solving similar problems (need to kick to
        the IdP’s UI to solve the problem)
    
      - So the “kick-to the IDP” extension is the ideal place to sign
        the user in

  - Tim:
    
      - General agree with Ben
    
      - Using this does not get you anything new, right?
    
      - In order to complete a FedCM request the IDP needs more info
        to complete
    
      - Correct?

  - Yi:
    
      - Yes

  - Alan (chat): Can we revisit that ‘optional’ statement? I thought
    FedCM was being worked on because of the proposed changes that
    will blat URIs to remove things that might be classed as
    ‘tracking’ a user (and thus breaking SAML 2.0 sessions that
    use web browser URI to POST things back to RP etc? ) - so it's not
    a case of ‘you won’t need to use FedCM’ ?
    
      - Nicolas (chat): FedCM's first mandate is to solve use cases
        that break with third party cookie removal, and later on to
        solve redirect use cases

  - Wanpeng:
    
      - OAuth has endpoint that could allow users to claim grant
        permission
    
      - How is that incorporated into FedCM?
    
      - If you use Google and Sign-In with Google (and haven’t used
        Google before)
    
      - Do you grant permission for website to process?
    
      - How is that handled in FedCM for first time, logging into RP
        for first time, and also needs to grant additional permissions
        for RP to access things

  - Yi:
    
      - In Fedcm, If you already have a session — you will see account
        chooser

  - Wanpeng
    
      - E.g., a user to BBC and want to login with Google — click Log
        in
    
      - In normal OAuth flows, there would be a button that user would
        click to consent to IDP sharing info to RP

  - Yi:
    
      - It will allow user to select account
    
      - Once you have selected that account, it conveys consent to
        share info

  - Wanpeng:
    
      - But then there is no Authorization grant
    
      - Is that in FedCM API

  - Yi:
    
      - FedCM requires that user already has active session with IDP
        before OAuth

  - Wanpeng:
    
      - Assume users have used BBC before?

  - Yi:
    
      - Whether user has signed into RP before is not

  - Achim:
    
      - In current formulation, FedCM can differentiate whether user
        is already signed up for BBC.com
    
      - If it is not, it is part of browser UI to show additional
        disclosure text that shows additional policy
    
      - Does not have a separate way to show AuthZ dialog itself
    
      - That step is currently done through new API points
    
      - So, if extension is in place — could maybe bundle all of that
        in the same place

  - Wanpeng:
    
      - Maybe. Also this kind of UI to allow users to determine
        whether they grant permissions or not

  - Heather:
    
      - Call to change the name of this extension that would help a
        lot

  - Phil (chat):
    
      - If you want to use an IdP, the IdP can decide if you need to
        authenticate or not. With this model, the user is supposed to
        decide when at the RP? I might just be very confused here.
        
          - Phil (chat) If there is a single IdP? Is that possible
            when there is more than one IdP?
        
          - Nicolas (chat) No, currently FedCM in Chrome allows one
            IDP only but we are planning to ship multiple IDP support
            in Chrome hopefully soon. The flow shouldnt be that
            different if there are multiple IDPs though (assuming you
            are signed in to them)
        
          - alan (chat) How to know which IdPs are relevant for the RP
            ?
        
          - Nicolas Pena Moreno (Jul 10, 2023, 8:56 AM)
        
          - the ones the user is signed in to

  - Nicolas (chat):
    
      - the RP / IDP decide via the JS call plus the response once the
        user taps on their profile

  - Achim:
    
      - This is basIcally the Authorization moment for the usual login

  - Heather:
    
      - Great discussion
    
      - Will chat with chairs this week — to see where to take it from
        here
    
      - Chrome team: hopefully you will consider renaming the
        extension UI
    
      - Next week’s call will be normal call
    
      - Week after that is in an IETF meeting, so might cancel it.
    
      - 
# 



# Attendees (sign yourself in)

  - Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

  - Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

  - Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

  - Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

  - Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google Chrome)

  - Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)

  - Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

  - Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)

  - Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation, co-chair)

  - Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)

  - Brent Zundel (Gen)

  - Alexandre Nderagakura (Independant)

  - Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

  - Brian Daugherty (google identity)

  - Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

  - David Hübner (DAASI International)

  - Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLink Software)

  - Alan Buxey (MyUniDays)

  - Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

  - Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)
