# FedID CG call notes (Pacific), 13/14 March 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Heather (from recording)

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Heather

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   R&E Info-sharing and Hackathon outputs - clarifying the proposals

    -   [<u>idp-sp-storage API - issue 4</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/4)

    -   [<u>Offloading Trust - issue 5</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/5)

-   AOB

    -   next call is an Atlantic call (20 March 2023).

Notes
=====

(Heather) - administrative intro

(Heather) Meeting in Mountain View was useful, but the information in
the proposals missed out on some of the background we covered in the
room. Want to go through these today to understand where additional
clarity would be useful.

(Judith) We uploaded the revisions we worked on late last week recently,
so should look at the latest copy. Tried to add more of the background
of what we discussed in the room.

(Martin) Overall interaction model that people are trying to achieve, I
can understand. Still struggling with the nature of the request being
made of browsers and users. What information do SPs, IdPs, Browsers
expect to protect from each other?

(Judith) Focusing on Issue 4, this is the more immediately accessible
piece. Fewer miracles need to occur. In the authN space, IdPs/SPs and
federation operators (fed ops) have created trust. Even without a fed
op, an IdP will only return an authN response to very few endpoints.
It’s not open to any endpoint at all. That’s partly a security feature.
That data exists and what was recognized is that those clear, limited
endpoints make up a signal that, if that can be provided, will signal
that these are an authentication flow. Depending on your trust, if
you’re willing to trust the SP or an external party to assert, there are
sources of data that can explain what these endpoints are. That data is
available for the browser to use to classify interactions.

(Martin) The question of the browser being involved is my most pressing
concern. When you say “limited number of endpoints” and you have a fed
op having hundreds of universities acting as IdPs, are the IdPs
providing that information to the fed op only or interacting directly
with SPs?

(Judith) In a multilateral federation, the fed op gets the data from
both IdPs and SPs, vets that data, and then certifies the data. That
manages the scalability, rather than having lots of pairwise
connections.

(Gary) Hub and Spoke model - IdPs and SPs all trust the fed op.

(Martin) The trust relationships are built, but how that manifests in
practice is my question. In one model, the identity of the IdP and SP
are known by domain names. The fed op can say “I have vetted the
following IdPs as following the rules” so the SP can take that name and
talk directly to the IdP.

(Judith) there are two models in the higher ed space. One is “hub and
spoke” where every entity talks to the fed op. The other is “mesh” where
everyone talks to everyone. The fed op has the authoritative data, but
then everyone talks to each other based on that.

(Martin) Because everything is possible, everything happens in practice,
so must deal with all. In one of these flows, when a user visits an SP
and goes through the experience of choosing an IdP, the thing I struggle
with is going from what is possible today in FedCM APIs to what the
incremental ask is on top of that. Today, it would be possible (in
theory) for the SP to present content that shows a list of fed
providers, a list of IdPs, and then the user can select the one that
applies to them. You can even get further through the process, then may
need to use Storage Access to pass first party information along. FedCM
fixes that last piece and makes it more direct and transparent rather
than using Storage Access.

(Judith) FedCM as it exists misses many of the security and trust
elements that are required in existing protocols.

(Martin) Which specific pieces of trust? Who is trusting whom with what?

(Judith) IdPs and SPs work around origins. Just because I trust IdP at a
domain origin doesn’t mean I trust all of them. Similar on the SP side.
Many SPs may share an origin, but the trust isn’t there. So, one piece
is the visibility into the exact response URL. IdPs do not return to
random URLs.

(Gary) There are also signaling aspects in certain protocols like SAML
that say “I only want IdPs that use 2FA” or “I want to force reauthn on
every SSO attempt”. Those are lost in the current FedCM API.

(Judith) Could argue that the authN request could be initiated through
the existing model if additional data elements were included. There are
significant questions around once the user gets to the IdP, the real
need for the user to be in a browser page so the IdP can do the 2FA or
other flows where the user may be involved in multiple pages to affirm
their state. In Fed Gov’t, recent 800-63 docs call for very short
lifetimes of 15-30 minutes. The hope was to have a way the browser could
have some trust in the protocol interaction, and then the protocol
interaction could continue as a well-established security and trust
signals in those protocols.

(Martin) Trying to understand the nature of the signal the IdP is
expecting that it won’t get from the current system.

(Judith) The identifier of the SP as its origin is insufficient. If the
SP sends a standard request, that request can be signed, can carry MFA
request; the return would need to be protocol specific to the known
endpoint for the known SPs.

(Martin) More interested in flow than specific of redirect, post, etc

(Judith) Those responses come back. In the federation space, the fed op
manages classifying the type of responses possible in this space and
vetting for minimal release of data. Fed ops put the policy tools in
place to make sure the data is there (e.g., contractual agreements)

(Martin) From a browser perspective, hard to see how these proposals
contribute to something a user cares about. The user cares about how
these flows work. But the next step, when you establish a relationship
across the two sites, that can be used to carry any rich amount of
information. Once they have the bootstrap everything can flow from
there. From a browser user perspective, I care that the user has control
over establishing that link. Once the link is established, anything we
can do to make it easier we’re happy to discuss.

(Judith) Making that “do you approve registration of a choice” we are
supportive of. One of the pieces that did not get well included is that
there is an existing practice of discovery in these spaces where users
are making these choices repeatedly. There are also models of how to
persist those choices across systems. And yes, letting browsers persist
it might improve the NASCAR problem for the user as part of the
browser’s need to make sure the user is making an informed choice when
connecting the two. One of the proposals had a clear interaction with a
discovery system. Instead of the fed op, the fed op operates a discovery
system that lists all the possible IdPs and then the API had a model so
the fed op would be able to present the choices the user has made and
only show a singular choice to the SP. It allowed isolation of not
letting the SP see all the users choices.

(Martin) Understand there are often multi-tiered decision making
processes in making a discovery. I work at a university, accessing a
particular resource, and that resource has several federation providers,
and I have to choose a particular federation operator and then choose
the institution where I work. Question is, how much of those choices
need to be hidden from the SP as opposed to a usability improvement that
we’re looking to gain.

(Gary) They need to be hidden from the IdP.

(Martin) From the FedCM perspective, the IdP won’t learn anything until
the user has agreed. But there are intermediate steps involved. How much
do we want to ensure the SP doesn’t learn of those choices.

(Gary) That was the premise of the Issue 4 proposal. The first time the
user loads a particular SP in their browser and have no association
between the SP and IDP, the SP could load a discovery service (e.g.,
SeamlessAccess) in the page that’s vended from the SP and present a
discovery UX within something like a Fenced Frame or an analogous
sandbox.

(Martin) Fenced Frame has a very particular set of goals it’s trying to
achieve. Talk about the goals YOU are trying to achieve.

(Gary) We are trying to present a UX to the user to select a particular
IdP and then record that association between the SP And IdP via the
proposed API without there being any possibility of that information
being communicated back to the SP origin or any other site. We want to
put that selection in a sandbox.

(Heather) One of the underlying assumptions we held during the meeting
was that no one party in the flow could be trusted with information. It
was about how to make sure the SP, the IdP, the browser doesn’t get more
than they absolutely need. That inhering limit of data was a big part of
the underlying design thinking.

(Martin) Is that a hard requirement? You could build this so the
discovery process happens in a regular iFrame. They could, at the
discretion of the discovery service provider, decide whether or not to
provide info to the SP. Why would that particular design be insufficient
in this case?

(Gary) My understanding is that the iFrame would not allow sharing that
repository back up to the top level browser context.

(Martin) If talking about iFrames, it is loaded within the IdP web page
and it will have access to partitioned state. It cannot access info on
other websites. It can store info locally and communicate with the
top-level page at its discretion.

(Gary) The larger concern is that the top-level page be able to
communicate those decisions back to the SP. If none of the parties
should be trusted, that’s a violation of that model.

(Judith) There is a usability piece where the browsers can help in a
privacy preserving way, if I go to an SP and out of 500 IdPs I have 3 I
want to use, in an iFrame the fact I’ve used one here, one there, and
one in another place, when I go to a fourth SP I would have to pick from
a blank slate as opposed to being presented with one of the IdPs I’ve
used before. The frame would be able to communicate across sites, but
only in ways that stay on the browser. The frame could use the new APIs
to constrain and register what the user picks and presenting that info
to the SP. You could have each site interact with the discovery itself
each time independently, it does work, but there are more details.

(Martin) If we’re talking about FedCM, the final step, which might
involve choosing between multiple IdPs, can happen within the browser
accessing info the browser knows if the person is logged in. If you’ve
used a particular IdP the browser can remember that. If you have logged
in, the browser can remember that.

(Judith) How does the browser know the user is still logged in? There
are different TTL.

(Martin) It doesn’t care about the details, but it does know you’ve been
to the website. It can also use the info the website has explicitly told
the browser (that a user is logged in here) we may be able to promote
those to the top of a chooser list.

(Judith) IdPs aren’t going to tell the browser things about the user
state without knowing the SP on the other side. Part of the piece here
is the relationship has a lot to do with, not just the IdP. The IdP is
not just saying things about the user. It’s making assertions about the
institutional relationship with the user.

(Gary) The account list endpoint is what Martin’s talking about. Did a
POC with SimpleSAMLphp (SSP). If you implemented that endpoint on an
IdP, it could tell you that this particular user is logged in over here.

(Judith) But that doesn’t address escalation of privilege)

(GAry) Not at all. One of the API calls doesn’t have a way to
communicate that state.

(Martin) posted a link to one of the proposals on FedCM that would allow
an IdP to signal “I am an IdP”. You wouldn’t get full fine-grained info
you’re describing in this context. You wouldn’t get info if an authN was
successful, but you could distinguish between the institutions where a
user has had interactions and where they never have, which take the
hundreds down to a small number.

(Judith) You would poll thousands of institutions?

(Martin) No, would persist info from the past. And it would not be
awareness of timeouts; they have no bearing on the situation. I’m trying
to get to the nature of the things that the browser needs to help with.
There is a path that looks mostly ok without changes to the API, and
that’s content, whether that be the top level SP page or the iFrame can
manage the front-end of the discovery process.

(Judith) One of the things with the existing model, the SP doesn’t know
what IdP the user has picked until the response occurs. But the SP needs
to be able to construct a request that’s appropriate to the IdP. Part of
these models are about allowing the SP to make the appropriate request.
We could have a binding through the browser where the request goes
through the browser to the endpoint, but the IdP has to go through
whatever protocol it wants to get back to the registered locations for
the SP.

(Martin) This IdP that has a static list of identities is the most
challenging in your context. The user will choose an IdP in this flow,
and that choice is not visible to the SP at time of choice. But at that
point, the browser will go to the IdP and ask what identities they have
to offer and then show another choice between identities. That’s where
it gets most challenging for your use case because the nature of those
identities is determined by the SP

(Judith) Generally, there’s usually one identity for a user at an IdP.
There are rarely multiple accounts at a given IdP, because these IdPs
are already managing a clear facet of the identity. It’s more that the
SP needs to be able to say “Hi IdP, here is my request to you. I know
what to expect with you.”

(Martin) If there is one identity that is uniquely identifying for the
person, and that info can be requested by the FedCM API with no changes
to the proposal. The SP goes through the process, does the multi-IdP
choice and passes a bucket of thousands of IdPs to the browser, the user
chooses one, there is one to return to the SP.

(Judith) That’s missing the request for privilege escalation and things
like that.

(Martin) AT this point, the SP has a hook it can use.

(Judith) Not always. There are flows where the user is not identified.
There are pseudonymous and anonymous flows, where claims returned are
that this user is allowed to do things but the user is not identified.

(Martin) That’s an interesting case, but let’s look at the case where an
identifier is provided.

(Judith) Call it the “request identifier” , a token you can use to
continue the flow.

(Martin) So the IdP returns a token to the SP that is unactionable. That
token does nothing but allow the SP to establish a communication channel
with the IdP. The SP can then say “oh you’re thiss website so let’s run
the SAML flow.”

(Judith) So the browser mediates an introduction. SP, you’ve given us a
list of IdPs to choose from, so we’re leaving this model where the UX
has been tuned for a community. You’re passing this so there is one user
experience for any stack of IdPs into the browser. Where would the
browser get the UX hints like logos and locales?

(Martin) All those things are advertised by the IdPs.

(Judith) So you would need to poll those thousands of IdPs at the time
to create the UX?

(Martin) I don’t know. Sam has more detail.

(Judith) Part of these models support ways that the localization
requests, the UX, could be customized to suit, for example, eIDAS in
Europe. Their discovery is “pick my home country” and so a map is an
appropriate UX. Whereas for universities, that won’t work.

(Sam) Wanted to answer one of Martin’s points. One of the things that
occurred to us in the meeting is in the second proposal (Issue 5) there
was a metadata file that was signed and contained the entirety of the
federation, and so all the IdPs that are vetted by a fed op. So, the
second proposal, the “how would the browser know about the thousand IdP”
would be through the metadata file.

(Martin) That contains a bunch of risks, let’s put that aside. There are
different angles to this one, some relating to the discovery process and
using private information about what website the user has been to and
presenting that in a sensible fashion, and then there is the backend
stuff for how tokens get from A to B. Trying to understand the problems
these proposals are trying to solve. Is it that we want to present
specific info?

(Vittorio) Won’t pretend I followed everything, but I do want to say
that first, this sounds very specific to higher ed topologies and one
concern as a meta-RP is that I would be forced to use this primitive for
my scenarios. It would not work for many reasons, two of which are that
1) do not want to disclose the list of IdPs to the browser because we
have natural trust relationships and browsers are not part of that trust
(see Kim Cameron’s Law of Justifiable Parties) and 2) might be unable to
produce that list statically. We have dynamic logic that determines
where to send people. I hope that these discussions will be positioned
as the specific that it is and not promoted for all types of federation.

(Martin) Great point. In your scenario where you don’t know who the IdPs
concretely are, you are still able to act as an IdP. Your’e acting as an
intermediary where you're getting the request for identity and through
an internal, opaque process, you send info on to the next party.

(Vittorio) From the UX, if the palace that actually verifies the
credential is the last hop, then all the discussions we have are
irrelevant. We aren’t using third-party cookies until we’re ready to
clean up. We’ve given up on that. Want to make sure we don’t take these
hypothetical primitives and use them for other scenarios.

(Martin) Goal is to expand on the current set of primitives to see if it
can support additional use cases. Looking at this from “I have this
specific problem with how the flow operates; here’s the problem; then
look at how we might solve those problems”. The flows as described
contain too many details at all levels.

(Judith) The model Vittorio described is also a concern in Higher Ed.
The presence of chained referrals of authentication is our proxy use
case and is very common. The current model is missing the ability to
chain those requests.

(Sam) That is one problem, but I’m less concerned about that because the
chaining happens through top level redirection, and that isn’t breaking
now. What are the problems with the existing proposals that do not
support higher ed? One I understand well is the multiple IdP UI. We’re
building that UI so you can have multiple IdPs in the account picker. I
was thinking it would have maybe 10; we haven’t decided on a limit, but
it wouldn’t be huge. Higher ed has a multiple IdP scenario that has a
different scale than what we are building for. The second one I heard
but don’t quite understand is that we pass a lot of IdPs and we go to
IdPs and we ask if they have a logged in user, and in their world they
don’t have that same analogy. The accounts don’t exactly exist without
the SP (e.g., pairwise accounts)

(Gary) It’s not quite that. It’s just very common for IdPs to have
fairly short lifetimes of 8-24 hours before the session is ended.

(Sam) So, the consumer use cases the sessions don’t expire as
frequently. That’s more resolvable. For you, Martin, think about if they
used the API as designed it would have to pass 1000+ IdPs.

(Martin) If you’ve been to the IdP website in the past, that info can be
retained. And if you only show 10 on the screen at once, then you’re
only calling once. Might not be searchable. UX might be terrible and
needs to be improved, but that’s a concrete problem we can work towards
building a solution for. The idea that you might reach for Fenced Frames
concerns me greatly. It doesn’t exist in the world today. The security
requirements for building something like that are not met. We cannot
protect the info given to one of those things requires more work.

(Sam) I’m with you on that. Want to minimize miracles required, and
Fenced Frames is one of those miracles. But one thing the group can do
is to break things down into smaller parts, into the problems. so we can
examine that. We can start with what Gary’s done to try implementing
FedCM in SSP.

(Martin) Most interested into looking at trade-based authorization,
where you don’t want th eSP to learn a canonical identifier at an IdP;
they just get a token that says they can access material.

(Judith) We also have pairwise identifiers specifically scoped to the
SP.

(Martin) That I think we can handle.

(Sam) They don’t think about these entities as origins. There is a
one-to-many mapping between entities and origins. So, establishing the
relationship is many on both sides. Both the SP and IdP can have
multiple origins.

(Judith) What appears to be an IdP at an origin, there are many
different IdPs at that one origin. There can be many SPs at that origin.
The trust is not for the whole origin, it’s specific to the party using
that provider.

(Martin) That’s even harder than the multiple origins one. It requires
different entities on both ends understanding the nature of the
communication channel and pulling individual threads.

(Judith) The concern from a SAML community, when the privacy comes for
the redirects we’ll just moved to POST, but eventually things for POST
will also be used for tracking, so we’re looking for ways the protocol
can be preserved, or is everything going to be a new binding/response.
Then we have to work with the browser for every protocol and binding.

(Martin) To the extent possible, the browser wants to get out of the
way. We want the user to be fully engaged at the point the link between
sites is created, and then it’s up to the sites to continue the flow.
Whatever we can do to make that easier, any resource specific stuff, we
can work on that level. Having the problems expressed very concretely “I
would like to achieve this in the following specific way that describes
information flows” and understanding we’re trying not to disrupt
practices that work.

(Judith) Curious what your mental model was. We got partway down a
thought experiment where the introduction was made from the SP by
presenting a list, the user pics, they go to the IdP, the IdP creates a
token for the SP… What is the value in that flow?

(Martin) The value from the browser is that it gives the user control of
flow of info between websites. Once that flow has been established, we
understand that flow is, if the sites choose, complete unlimited
bandwidth.

(Judith) Is that using existing protocols outside the browser APIs?

(Martin) It could be because we don’t care.

(Judith) Would you then be able to protect those protocols? The
connection was made there, so the redirects and posts would also be
protected?

(Martin) We cannot stop you from communicating about a user when you’ve
identified them. When you have matched the person, you can communicate
about them behind our backs.

(Judith) That’s a new protocol.

(Martin) It could be, it’s backchannel rather than front.

(Judith) So that is your suggestion, to go backchannel?

(Martin) Saying it could go backchannel. The front-channel
communications would be less constrained.

(Gary) From my point of view, Issue 4 is trying to do exactly that, but
using specific protocol endpoints from the SP and IdP that are SAML or
OIDC specific to tell the browser there is communication between them
and do not intermediate it. But if the browser is requesting an opaque
token needs to be passed, how do you want to identify the bidirectional
channel is open? We could probably implement that.

(Judith) Through the browser channels are valuable because it keeps the
user engaged, and we want the user to be engaged. Sometimes we want that
for raising security levels, offering consent, etc. Going completely
backchannel loses user engagement in these exchanges.

(Martin) General approach is that when we have that channel established,
if you're willing to change how you operate, you can do what you want to
do. On the other hand, if the existing practices follow a particular
pattern and we can help, leaving aside potential APIs, if we’re doing
tracking prevention that prevented info from passing through, we would
disable those things. if we come for posts and redirects, we would not
come for these because the channel has been established.

(Judith) That’s one of the highest goals we articulated

(Martin) when people are building these websites, they do want to put
users in control of those interactions. To get in the way of that
undermines the value we’re trying to provide.

(Sam) Selfish question: Martin, would you go as far as reenabling 3pc
post FedCM for RPs and IdPs?

(Martin) It’s a possibility. We might prefer Storage Access; we have
talked to Johann about this as well. Once the communication channel is
up, why constrain it?

(Sam) AGree with Storage Access, but autogranting without a prompt?

(Martin) We’re willing to talk about it. Not sure it would help these
flows.

(Heather) If we can figure out how to identify and differentiate legit
authN flows, that has such potential for solving for 3pc problems,
that’s very attractive.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (OKTA)

-   Judith Bush (OCLC)

-   Martin Thomson (Mozilla)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Gary Windham (Cirrus)

-   Wendy Seltzer
