#FedID CG call (Atlantic), 14 November 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
         Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
         Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   WG Proposal status

-   FedCM Issues

    -   Allow signing in to additional account(s) - [<u>issue
     511</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/511)

    -   A not-yet logged in IDP has no route to success with this flow -
     [<u>issue
     442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)

    -   Feature request: allow revocation - [<u>issue
     496</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/496)

    -   Hosted Domain / Domain Hint - [<u>issue
     427</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/427)

-   AOB

    -   Next call: Atlantic call, 21 November 2023

Notes
=====

-   WG Updates

    -   Heather: We are at the top of the agenda for the WG groups
     meeting for today. No opinions on the name or how it relates
     to other groups

-   FedCM Issues ([<u>issue
 511</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/511))

    -   Heather: Got a few issues, let’s start with [<u>issue
     511</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/511).

    -   Christian: Some IDPs would like to be able to sign into an
     additional account from the account chooser. Might wanna let
     folks sign into a similar account. For certain cases IDPs want
     a more streamlined login. Suggestion is to add a field to the
     config file. (Something like: allow use other account). Allow
     you to switch to another/additional account. After the user
     signs in, it requests the account list again with a user
     account list with the replaced account. Any comments on that?

    -   Achim: That means the user adds an account, they need to
     authenticate, so that doesn’t mean the IDP has an opportunity
     to show a pop-up?

    -   Christian: yeah that would be an excuse to add an IDP pop-up for
     the login field

    -   Achim: this might conflict with button mode and allow sign up

    -   Chrtistian: for the button mode and the mismatch dialogue we
     already have a login url so we don’t need to add that again.
     The only additional surface would be the config field for this
     button.

    -   Achim: yeah I was thinking there might be a way to consolidate
     some of these. Obviously a big use case for like Office365

    -   Chrisitian: some IDPs only support 1 login at a time, maybe you
     don’t want a button or only in some cases. But Google/Facebook
     support being logged in to many accounts at the same time.
     This would be the same as the login status API.

    -   Achim: I’d add, is it an IDP flag? A general flag?

    -   Christian: it would need to be IP specific, this flag would
     determine for multi-idp

    -   Achim: Could be a chance to consolidate some use cases.

    -   \[Note from Yi Gu\]:

        -   For UI, it may be quite similar to the one we used in
         LoginStatus API:
         [<u>https://developer.chrome.com/blog/fedcm-chrome-120-updates/\#what-if-the-user-session-expires-let-the-user-sign-in-through-a-dynamic-login-flow</u>](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/fedcm-chrome-120-updates/#what-if-the-user-session-expires-let-the-user-sign-in-through-a-dynamic-login-flow)

        -   native UI to allow user to continue sign in to the IdP

        -   pop-up window that loads the IdP sign-in flow

    -   Nicolas: One difference is do we want to allow this add
     account/use other account button in another mode? For now it’s
     not used in that case but why wold an IDP want this? Not all
     IDPs might want this, might make the user stick to 1 account
     (this would prevent showing the switch account button).

-   FedCM Issues ([<u>issue
 496</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/496))

    -   Nicolas: We've Been chatting with the Priv team and the only
     thing we wanted to point out from the revocation API. we think
     when revoke is called, even if the IDP doesn’t respond,
     something should be removed from the account set. Otherwise
     the JS would have unlimited IDP requests to the endpoint, even
     if user used FedCM in the past. In Chrome we implement that if
     revocation fails after request to IDP, then we clear all
     accounts associated with that RP/IDP pair. Revoke will fail if
     no browser knowledge of FedCM in the past. We can also specify
     it that just some account is removed (which should meet the
     privacy bar for the API).

    -   Phil: You talk about session and IDP/RP revocation, but not an
     “Account” revocation.

    -   Nicolas: it is an Account revocation in that the IDP/RP would no
     longer see it as a valid account. It’s not just browser side,
     can be on IDP and RP side for multiple reasons.

    -   Phil: that makes sense, I just feel like an IDP should know what
     it’s revoking and have a sense of what’s revoked.

    -   Achim: Is there any implementation without FedCM that does this?

    -   Nicolas: yes the Google SDK has a revoke call already.

        -   [<u>​​https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/revoke</u>](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/revoke)

        -   Facebook revoke:
         [<u>https://developers.facebook.com/docs/facebook-login/guides/permissions/request-revoke/\#:\~:text=follow%20these%20guidelines.-,Revoking%20Permissions,-Apps%20can%20let</u>](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/facebook-login/guides/permissions/request-revoke/#:~:text=follow%20these%20guidelines.-,Revoking%20Permissions,-Apps%20can%20let)

    -   Achim: we shouldn’t let the RP do this.

    -   Nicolas: I think it makes sense in that if you are revoking to
     the RP, it should also do it to the IDP because it doesn’t
     exist. You don’t have to care about it and you can call get
     without Revoke

    -   George: so what we are “revoking” is consent, maybe we should
     add this to the API name. I use sign-in with Google to sign in
     to open table, then I say I’m done, revoke it to Google. So if
     I ever want to sign in again I’d need to redo the entire
     consent flow. So it might be better to callout that the
     revocation is more for the consent than the account to help
     understand this.

    -   Nicolas: yes

    -   George: Sure because it’s confusing to allow an RP to kill an
     account

    -   Nicolas: in that case we will work on the method name

    -   Yi: When IDp receives revoke request from RP, sometimes IDP
     doesn’t want to clear request from RP?

    -   Achim: I’m not saying it is broadly supported, but an IDP
     typically has that info naturally. If that can be revoked,
     that only triggers that a consent UI pops-up again. The other
     clarity is it’s not about deleting the account or the RP, but
     revoking the consent linkage to the RP. Otherwise the IDP
     should be fine with that API.

    -   Yi: so after revocation IDP would have access to that RP

    -   Achim: yes the user wouldn’t be in the approve list so the
     procedure would start again

    -   George: but for security, how do you prove that RP and user
     wanted this behavior? Fundamentally you want client auth on
     the RP to prove that both the User and RP agree this action
     should be taken.

    -   Nicolas: yes that’s a credential request to say the user is
     signed into that request to say the user is revoked. This is
     PM this is what the user want s for revocation

    -   George: the question is, will the browser tell the RP? Because
     the browser needs to know the RP. If I didn’t know, I could
     give my consent again, but there’s 2 things that need to
     happen. This user needs to sever this relationship with you,
     so that the clean up prevents data collection continuing after
     the consent was revoked.

    -   Christian: We are thinking the RP would provide a button that
     helps the RP

    -   George: what I think works is that the IDP wants to know that
     the RP initiated the action. What can you give the IDP to
     assure it was the RP that started this? I am thinking it could
     be a back channel call but semantically the IDP wants to know
     that.

    -   Yi: as mentioned we are using the credential, and you have the
     RP origin, so anyone else, you can’t revoke account for
     another origin.

    -   George: if I hit the RP, I can’t kill the relationship because I
     should have adequate controls for the user.

    -   Yi: these other browsers provide revoke functionality for their
     best interest. We are including this APi in that flow. That’s
     my question.

    -   Nicolas: We will make sure there’s no obvious sec holes. I also
     wanted to ask the group if this method should be in identity
     credential or in identity provider? It’s static so it can go
     anywhere. So where should it go?

    -   Achim: since this is an RP feature, I’d want it on not the IDP
     specific level. I guess you could argue it both ways.

-   Hosted Domain / Domain Hint ([<u>issue
 427</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/427))

    -   Nicolas: small update to “domain hint” would be to add login
     parameters for both the login hint and Domain hint so the IDP
     can restrict login as desired

    -   Achim: Logging in as a URL parameter is how it is done in OpenID
     Connect

    -   George: Logging in isn’t super well defined, I’d be a little bit
     concerned if it became a wildcard limiting mechanism.

    -   Nicolas: can’t user RegEx in Login hint at the moment

    -   George: other things that come into play is if this is really
     necessary? But the other mechanism OpenID Connect provides is
     a user hint which is similar to the login hint. We never
     standardized this but there’s been discussion of using an IDP
     hint (similar to your domain hint). Is there any concern on
     impact to user if those values changed? The hints might become
     a DOS, and at least with TLS you got to the correct edge of
     the network, so the risk is small. It seems okay.

    -   Nicolas: I got what I needed

-   Multi-IDP

    -   Phil: I was wondering if there was gonna be more on multi-idp
     work.

    -   Noicolas: Sam knows more than I but the plan is to get these 2
     apis, revocation and domain hint out the door in chrome. After
     that I will start to look into array based multi-idp.
     Especially with all the new features, make sure it works with
     those features. Should be spending more time on those.

    -   Yi: I think Nicolas also filed a new tag review for those
     options. Did we also want to discuss the not logged in IDP?

-   A not-yet logged in IDP has no route to success ([<u>issue
 442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442))

    -   Christian: Not sure I have anything specific related to this but
     happy to answer those

    -   Yi: Ben, we have these different flows. In the issue you said
     iterating those flow type might be limiting in the future.
     Thoughts?

    -   Ben: I don’t have the context for this

    -   Yi: this was the widget flow, and the button flow driven by the
     user.

    -   Ben: we maintain the widget flow isn’t something Fx is
     interested in because of abuse concerns (or at least not
     having it gated on user activation).

    -   Yi: So you'd like to get the API based on UI driven user
     gesture?

    -   Ben: Yes we are leaning to that but we have had some changes
     since then, I’ll need to check.

    -   Phil: I did some testing, I am guessing the bigger consideration
     is the multi-idp stuff as a global property to sign into every
     idp the more IDPs you have. That makes perhaps more sense, IDK
     how the user appreciates that. How does it pan out for
     multi-IDP support and when to pop-up such a window? You don’t
     want to be signing in multiple times to find the correct
     account chooser. How does the RP choose that in advance?

    -   Nicolas: we need to think more about it especially if too many
     IDPs, can’t open a pop-up for that amny IDPs. Was implemented
     after we did that prototype so I get it.

    -   Phil: yes we would select the IDP and then decide the IDP.

    -   Heather: as a reminder to Google. We discussed this at length in
     a face to face meeting and still have those notes.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, co-chair)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation, co-chair)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd.)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

