# FedID CG call (Atlantic), 27 March 2023
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron B (mozilla), Judith

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   R&E Info-sharing and Hackathon outputs - clarifying the proposals

    -   [<u>idp-sp-storage API - issue 4</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/4)

    -   [<u>Offloading Trust - issue 5</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/5)

-   Planning for IIW (April 18-20)

-   AOB

    -   next call is an Atlantic call (3 April 2023).

Notes
=====

Heather: Why are these relevant if “i” am not R&E? These are not
specific to R&E, acts as a model for implementations and options. We
will be drill down to what goes into the spec, eventually.

Continuing to look at Issue 4: [<u>idp-sp-storage API - issue
4</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/4) Have there been
updates?

Phil: I looked at the proposal 4 doc(\* this is not in the GitHub
document), the current FedCM design and linking them through to existing
github issues. These are the issues we currently have, we think proposal
4 solves some of that.

Judith: do we want to leave a read only link since the link we are
usually referring to is being updated? (Pgs 21-22)

*From the document:*

Heather: The question of scale, what happens when you have 100s-1000s
IDPs. That’s not that uncommon.

Sam: Martin mentioned, he believes his mental model was when having tons
of IDPs, have the user go through the IDP before going to the SP. Is
this the exception or the rule? We have been working on an API IDPs can
call to say their user is logged in. If the users have been to the IDP
instead of the SP, then they could say they are a special pre-seen IDP.
Normally SP initiated is the norm, but can we fall back to that? Ex: on
my laptop I have probably used these before so maybe I can log in to the
univ portal which can then prioritize the IDP. As a user, how often do I
use my uni service in isolation before I get to these SPs? If we expose
the API an IDP can call, the IDP can call tehy have a special
relationship with users

Chris Phillips: I would express caution in using “IdP initiated” .
Recognize the instinct that the IdP “starts” but the IdP also has a
concept of logging in to specific service. Are we talking about “logging
into the browser” and then the browser becomes a relying party itself?
Is this what is necessary for “reducing the set” of possible IdPs? The
relying party normally needs to reveal itself to the IdP because not all
IdPs trust all RPs. Even with out the large number of potential IdPs.

Heather restates a question: is there a signal an IdP can share with the
browser that signals that this user can use this IdP? A pure IdP
discovery (by the browser).

Cameron: the way we understood this flow \[presumably RPs with many
customers\] , choose a federation then choose the institution from that.
When you attempt to log in with an IdP from an RP – this could be where
the database is in the browser. I wonder if the end user will always
have an upfront cost in picking out. Instead, having a database in the
browser might help filter.

Chris compares this with [<u>Seamless
Access</u>](https://seamlessaccess.org/) – a project to help improve the
IdP discovery – where the choice is persisted in the browser to help the
user facing the large list.

Chris asks Heather about
[<u>https://seamlessaccess.org/</u>](https://seamlessaccess.org/)
impacts with browser changes – the discovery flow at RPs that have
federation and nonfederation users have a third party cookie to persist
choice across ecosystem.

Heather: the RPs need to control the metadata on their side, it’s a 3rd
party

Cameron: I thought we were discussing having a database to keep choices
(last seen, previously used) Not addressing the question of whether the
user has active session.

Phil: In the proposal we have a solution to have a \[i didn’t quite get
the details\] yes

Discussion of browser vs RP mediated choice. Cameron asserts RP sends
list, Browser presents choice, Browser introduces SP & IdP to agree
working together and record the relationship, once relationship
recorded, browser allows IdP & SP to interact as they wish.

Cameron: the only data we want to persist is the is the IdPs and RPs so
that present the choices and save the user time

Phil: we want the flows to flow as close to the patterns now, with
changes at IdP & RP to establish trust at the browser.

Cameron - is linkage bidirectional? Can you start at an IdP and collect
trusted RPs? The user is selecting the RP. Can there be hundreds or
thousands?

Chris: potential, here’s why. In the portal example the institutions may
have north of 1000s internal relying parties for their “internal
institution” of any sides. The users doesn’t pick from a thousand, a
user picks from the list is quite large, but the actual available RPs
may be very filtered (not just for internal fed but also cross domain).

Cameron: I think my point was, when you choose the RP in the portal, can
we streamline trying to get that coupling sooner so the users doesn’t
need to re-select an IDP.

Judith: your internal feds might not be all “internal”. In higher ed
federations you have cross org federations with thousands of RPs. So say
you have a researcher with access to a very specific RP, but only 2
people at that institution would ever access that RP so it would never
be in the portal.

Heather: And then there’s the question of the priority of the individual
versus the institution.

Sam: Can you walk me through the life of a user in a specific example of
a new student. Can you walk me through the IDP processes? Maybe we are
using the word IDP in a different way than I am.

Gary: A high school applies through an admission portal (not campus Id);
if accepted, they get an invitation to set up their “net Id” for their
campus credential. More on-boarding processes like orientation – this
goes through PeopleSoft at Iowa – use the campus IdP, this includes
enrolling for courses. They then log into learning management system
which uses IdP. SSO can last for 24 hours or they can choose to have
authN prompt every time.

Heather (from chat): This diagram might be useful to show where/how
different stakeholders touch or represent different parts of the campus
IAM systems:
https://miro.com/app/board/o9J\_lSqLJbw=/?share\_link\_id=226171772391

Judith: can you talk about campus used computers, like logging in
through a campus computer lab versus a students personal device?

Gary: normally they log in with their campus ID, and then need to exit
the browser to kill the SSO session.

Phil: you got your Identity Management System which can be different
than the SSO. so an IDP in SAML is not responsible for identity
lifecycle/management, they are just responsible for auth context. Lots
of different things from Identity and account management.

Gary: that’s a good point that IDPs provide Authentication and some
stuff for Authorization but not the actual identity management. The “Net
ID” would be in our ID registry

Sam: That’s what I heard from Martin. In the flow a student may go to an
IDP, Go to the university portal to manage the account, the site could
call the browser API to communicate a preference towards a specific univ
(not their SSO, just saying we have seen this IDP before). The Picker is
by institution, so why not have the institution say, the user has used
me in the past (not logged in, just we have seen each other before), so
in the picker the RP can pre-filter by historic data.

Kris: Harvard has a joint program with AMHurst for research edu group.
Harvard and UMass both have accounts, but the access is done by the
research group. It is cross Univ, but students don’t go to each
institution to create the accounts. The research group does that, and
the student is not involved in the creation. What matters is the context
of the user or student.

Judith: From a librarian perspective, there is an equity discussion
missing. We can’t assume a user uses 1 device through all of this. These
can be users to have accounts setup in browser for all these flows
likely happens on a parents computer, not necessarily a students
computer. Not everyone has their own computer, and in computer labs,
lots of these students reach these resource systems that have 1000s of
R&E institution, but they won’t have the benefit of that historic login.

Zacharias: Within seamless access we have a way of finding your IDP. I
am not sure why the number is the issue. As long as seamless access
exists, why does the list need to be shorter?

Heather: Seamless access is useful for R&E but it’s not complete. Any
Univ can tell you, the longtail of RPs supporting federation is very
long. We will still find use cases where these features won’t be useful.
I think we are looking more a t finding a graceful failure model. I
dropped a link to a diagram I created sometime ago
([<u>https://miro.com/app/board/o9J\_lSqLJbw=/?share\_link\_id=226171772391</u>](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_lSqLJbw=/?share_link_id=226171772391)
) covering all these different options, and users might work with IDP,
but the IDP may work with the library.

Sam: responding to Zacharias point, the list is the distinction between
proposal 4 & 5. THe institution picker happens outside browser in
proposal 4, but it’s in browser in proposal 5. In 5 the browser is able
to prioritize based on past relationships stored in browser, where as 4
gives more control to whomever serves the list of IDPs. If you can do
the institution picker in browser land, the user can

Cameron: 1) Isn’t past browser information in the browser db useful even
if multiple people use the computer? And can the IDP list be pre-ordered
by the RP?

Sam: you do the institution picker prior to browser API, and once the
institution is chosen, then the user can login to the RP from the IDP.
Proposal 4 still says its done before calling the browser.

Chris: Thinking about the processes, how do we take these discussions
and turn them into an “item” to improve design and resolve issues.

Judith: I wanted to underscore the large list problem with the current
discussion, and if it’s in the FedCM spec, is the list being put in the
browser and the browser calling endpoints at each IDP? In Number 4
selection is outside the browser so it is handled by the community that
results in a single linking up, while in5, all connection metadata needs
to be loaded in. I would call attention to the fact that the piece about
re-using browsers (campus browsers) the logout typically clears the
machine. The point about the parents computer, the registration step
won’t persist between machines.

Heather: next week we will discuss gaps in the proposal.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, co-chair)

-   Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd.)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)

-   Judith Bush (OCLC)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   YI Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   David Huebner (DAASI)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Zacharias Törnblom (SUNET, SeamlessAccess)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Achim Schlosser
