# FedID CG call (Atlantic) - 27 February 2023

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Wendy Seltzer

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Wendy

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   Potential for a Working Group

    -   [<u>Draft Charter and Notes</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I-ZPbpOlXpU1fFcmu-loWd8_inX6wBG_toSNGswyZRI/edit#)

-   FedCM

    -   [<u>See tagged issues</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/labels/agenda%2B)

-   AOB

    -   next call is an Atlantic call (6 March 2023).

Notes
=====

Heather: Welcome, CEPC, Agenda review.

Topic: WG planning

Heather: For this work to move toward standardization, would need to be
in a WG. Some concerns that have been raised around membership
requirements, not something this CG can fix. Have started a
[<u>discussion
draft.</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I-ZPbpOlXpU1fFcmu-loWd8_inX6wBG_toSNGswyZRI/edit#)
Consider whether we want a new WG or existing WG to find home. Existing
groups: WebAppSec. Up to them to see if it’s in scope or want to
recharter. WebAuthn has been mentioned, less likely because they’re
already focused and coordinating among standards bodies. Old Web
Identity proposal, ultimately chartered WebCrypto instead.

Draft borrows ideas from PATCG, coordinated closely with CG. Want to
maintain similar coordination. We had earlier conversation with folks
from CHAPI(?) coordinating wallet discovery, which has similar issues to
identity discovery. Don’t know if API can exist across multiple WGs,
it’s a coordination challenge.

How do folks feel about exploring WG model?

\[a few thumbs up\]

Heather: Feedback on scope: \[from
[<u>doc</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I-ZPbpOlXpU1fFcmu-loWd8_inX6wBG_toSNGswyZRI/edit#)\].
We should talk with PrivacyCG, standardization direction of some of
their APIs. We have somewhat different focus, as we’re often balancing
functionality.

Brian Campbell: The inclusion of wallet functionality seems a pretty
significant increase in scope. CHAPI isn’t the only wallet API. Also
some incubations around mobile docs, drivers license. Potential
overlapping work.

Heather: Some conversations, I’ll see if I can find those. If you have
scope thoughts, please let me know.

Topic: FedCM Tagged Issues

Heather:
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/labels/agenda%2B</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/labels/agenda%2B)

Are there any of these where folks want feedback?

Nicolas: New process
([<u>431</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/431)). Higher bar:
need interest from 2+ implementers to land new feature in the spec. So
we added agenda+ to issues where we’d like to hear from other
implementers. Plan for PRs against the spec, waiting for agreement to be
reached.

Heather: we talked on Feb 13 call (Pacific). Suggest noting whom you
want to get review from, what kind of feedback.

Nicolas: Often, we want both implementers and people with use cases.

Heather: anything else you want to discuss?

Nicolas: not I

Topic: AOB

Heather: Research and Education community has pulled together a group
discussing large scale federations, Mtn View this week. I’ll be there
taking notes for considerations for us.

\[adjourned\]


Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google) Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd)
