# FedID CG/WG Telecon, 2024-09-17 (Atlantic)

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan

* Scribe: Phil Smart

Call-in details: see [https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter: [https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
  * Reminders:   
    * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter status](https://www.w3.org/2024/07/wg-fedid-charter.html)   
    * [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)  
  * Upcoming call schedule  
    * September 23–27 — TPAC   
  * Reminder: IIW is coming up — October 29–31  
* Finalizing [FedID CG/WG Process Mechanics](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/blob/main/proposals-CG-WG.md)  
* FedCM issues  
  * [Use value names which aren’t tied to UI affordance for FedCM parameter: mode \- issue \#5](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/button-mode/issues/5)  
* Finalizing the TPAC Agendas  
  * Joint CG/WG: Monday, 23 September @ 16:30​–​18:00 — [Draft Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_M7PS9ZRhSUGsV9QnzArNc3BA9i8A2nS0PnfcngABas/edit#heading=h.kztazmy180rz)  
  * Joint CG/WG: Tuesday, 24 September @ 11:00-12:30 — [Draft Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_M7PS9ZRhSUGsV9QnzArNc3BA9i8A2nS0PnfcngABas/edit#bookmark=id.v729wj6uovg0)  
  * WG only: Tuesday, 24 September @ 14:00-16:00 — [Draft Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ISEjusnwvm5svndeNC9C5Smqk7LJXnMPgSwf7zb7bYM/edit)  
  * Breakout sessions: [calendar](https://www.w3.org/calendar/tpac2024/breakout-sessions/)  
* AOB


# Notes

* Heather: W3C code of conduct  
  * Apple has joined the Working Group\!  
  * Proposed recharter garnered a formal objection, the next step is to resolve (quickly). The objection is public and there is a link in the agenda ([https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)). Simone is working on the response.  
* Simone:  
  * I am in contact with the objector. Timezone issues. There are 4 points:  
    * a. Perpetuates sharing of personal data by making it more available via a browser API  
    * b. Increased centralization through subtle tradeoffs  
    * c. Content will be moved from the deep web to the “attributed deep web”  
    * d. Exchanges user agency for greater compliance and convenience  
  * Probably we can find a shared solution for 2 of the 4 points.   
  * If we can not resolve the final 2, we can use the W3C Council to help resolve.  
  * Draft report should be ready before TPAC. Best case, try to resolve; worst case, fallback to the W3C council.  
  * All feedback welcome: mail, Slack, etc. To Simone. ([simone@w3.org](mailto:simone@w3.org))  
  * The objector might attend TPAC remotely, we have a breakout session for this [https://github.com/w3c/tpac2024-breakouts/issues/98](https://github.com/w3c/tpac2024-breakouts/issues/98)  
* Beckett (from comments)  
  * Could the argument be made that stopping the proposed standardisation of FedID is not the correct response to valid concerns, rather we need to be pursuing it now in order to ensure the eventual rollout of FedID is fair, reasonable and proportionate with regard to impacts on rights and freedoms?   
* Simone (from comments)  
  * it's one of the proposals I made with the objector, but he replied that he would like to see practical mitigations. in any case we're all aligned, me, the group and the objector, and the goal is to do something that respects human rights and doesn't make the situation worse  
* Questions about the formal objection?  
  * Zacharias: Can you read the formal objection?  
  * Heather: Yes, you can read it above  
  * Simone: Updating the threat model. Objector wants to find all the threats and their solutions (solutions might come during TPAC).   
* Heather:  
  * No CG meeting next week  
  * Next meeting in TPAC with breakout sessions  
  * IIW is coming next month — Oct 29–31, 2024  
    * [https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxxix-39-2024b-tickets-908232647297](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxxix-39-2024b-tickets-908232647297)  
* Heather:  
  * When do things move from one stage of incubation to another stage of candidate recommendation?  
    * Been working through that. Wendy has been working with Sam on this  
* Wendy:  
  * Thanks, Sam, for helping with the W3C process. The goal of the draft (see agenda) is to describe how the group makes recommendations. Incubation in community groups, open to members and non-members.   
  * Process begins at stage 0, exploration. I’ve an idea, post on GitHub, etc. Get people to discuss it: maybe it has been thought of before, maybe it did or did not work, maybe people want to collaborate on it. Incubation (what this is) happens in a community group.  
    * Then the proposal needs a champion. Or maybe it does not get one if not something that should be taken further  
  * Stage 2 is more formal development. Back at the repo, we should have a listing of the proposals we are working through in the CG to put to a WG. [https://github.com/w3c-fedid](https://github.com/w3c-fedid) proposals are listed. This includes the FedCM API, we are looking to finalize the split out of that for the login status API. Other proposals coming forward, including the lightweight FedCM, button mode, multi-IdP. Each gets its own space. These can then be discussed in the CG and WG and then moved through the process to recommendation.  
  * Please look through the markdown document about how those proposals work. You can get a shared understanding of how things move forward. That could raise questions or comments, which could iterate the work.   
* Heather:  
  * If not participated in the W3C in the past. CG and WG relationships. Sometimes WG takes over the CG and the CG shuts down. Sometimes the CG does all the work and the WG rubber stamps. Hope is that the process here can help inform the W3C about how this can work.  
  * Process we have is not set in stone. The GitHub process seems good for now, but can be reviewed.  
* Yi:  
  * [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/button-mode/issues/5](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/button-mode/issues/5). Beginning of this design, differentiation between button mode and widget mode. The widget mode has been shipped in Chrome; it shows in the top right. If you have not signed into the IdP, you have no chance with the widget mode (it integrates with the login status API).  
  * The button mode allows you to select an IdP you have not yet logged into.  
  * The naming of these modes is being discussed. Should the modes be renamed? Proposing to rename the values from ‘button’ and ‘widget’ to ‘active’ and ‘passive’. ‘Button’ mode requires users to do something (click button). ‘Passive’ mode does not require the user to activate, but it might fail. Reference to UI “loudness”  
  * Active implies getting the user to log in more actively. Modal UI  
  * Passive, sometimes no UI if the user has already logged in to the IdP.  
  * Can add new modes in the future depending on demand.   
  * Proposal to rename the mode.  
* Heather:  
  * Any objections to the rename?  
* Ben:  
  * Name changes are good. But showing the UI (passive mode pops up on page load) when the user is not in active mode (interacted) is controversial. Pushing dialogs to users without any interaction would be hard to add to Firefox.   
* Yi:  
  * Sounds good (to Ben).   
  * Up to the browser whether to support either active or passive or both  
  * Discussion needed  
* Ben:  
  * I do not want to design something that is "take it or leave it". That is not standardising, so push back on that approach.  
* Sam:  
  * On passive mode. Chrome implemented it in such a way that Chrome can ignore the mode. The browser can have the agency to ignore the request if we believe it is not helping the user. Also looking into ML models to check for user intent. If the intent is not so active, make the UI less loud.  
  * Useful for websites and users to find a way to log in to a website with their federated account in a predictable way.  
  * So that is best in an interoperable way across browsers.  
* Tim:  
  * Harmonize these features. Ambient mode in WebAuth. This could be a subject of my breakout session at TPAC (note added to the issue).  
  * [https://github.com/w3c/tpac2024-breakouts/issues/49](https://github.com/w3c/tpac2024-breakouts/issues/49)   
* Ben:  
  * Sounds good.  
* Yi:  
  * Continue at TPAC  
* Sam:  
  * Agree we should rename  
* Heather:  
  * Rename but expect a longer conversation…  
  * Transition to what is on the agenda at TPAC.   
  * Draft agenda for the joint WG and CG session ([https://docs.google.com/document/d/1\_M7PS9ZRhSUGsV9QnzArNc3BA9i8A2nS0PnfcngABas/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_M7PS9ZRhSUGsV9QnzArNc3BA9i8A2nS0PnfcngABas/edit?usp=sharing))  
  * Monday's session is full. Introduction to people just coming in, deciding to join the WG or the CG. Introduction to the CG and the WG.   
  * Talk about the recharter status  
  * Then, what is FedCM, and what is the status. Good demos about what this looks like for real  
  * From that, what things are ready to move from stage 1….\<did not catch\>  
  * What is needed for the LoginStatus API. Talk to John W. about the next steps  
  * Lots of pre-reading for TPAC. Heads up so we can have a healthy conversation.  
* Npm:  
  * Lots of ‘stage’ stuff in the agenda. Do people feel like they understand that? Do we need to present that a bit more, or do people understand it? We talked about it a bit more in the call, but we need to make sure people are on the same page about what those things mean  
* Wendy:  
  * I think that we want to get everybody on board with the process of working through issues. A formal WG and CG consensus is required in substantive areas on the spec, we need to work through the reasoning on all sides. The process document lives in a different place so it can help guide us on moving forward. If people have questions about it please ask… some of the answers will come from trying to make it work.   
  * If there is something in the formal W3C process that looks at odds with ‘this approach’, the formal W3C process has the last word.  
  * Are there places we want to spend more time talking about for clarity?  
* Npm:  
  * (I) Had more feedback on the initial draft, but seems fine now. More of a PSA. I do not think it has been presented. Agenda assumes people understand what these things are.  
* Heather:  
  * Suggestion. We have talked about stages for a while, we have not polished. I would like to keep the language, people read through it, but people need to understand it… Maybe people are not familiar with stage 2, but by the time we have had the conversations, they will be.  
  * One of the things to think about TPAC, high bandwidth conversations, lots of people in the room, some will be new. Condense answers to questions for new people. Is there anything that would benefit the high bandwidth conversations?  
  * Updating the agenda in GitHub. If you think of something you want on the agenda, let me (Heather) or Wendy or Tim know.   
  * For those in the WG — there is a dedicated WG session after lunch. For those in the WG only.   
  * Today, we have two normative specifications, FedCM and LoginStatus API. We will respond to the recharted and the objections. If you read through the charter, we would especially  like to get horizontal review from: privacy (PING), security, accessibility, internationalization, and technical architecture (TAG) groups.  
* Simone:  
  * We have the formal objection, we have the PR for updating the charter ([https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+%5Bwg%2Ffedid%5D+](https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+%5Bwg%2Ffedid%5D+))  
  * Already sent it to the commenters, expecting the final feedback Friday. Feel free to review.   
* Wendy:  
  * Following up on horizontal review. One of the things that helps a WG get the horizontal review done, is for people in the WG to work with horizontal review counterparts. W3C has those five groups, they are experts in those, we are experts in federated identity management, so we can help work together in intersecting issues — also can learn about those things within the W3C. Think about whether you want to be one of the spearheading people. As we move further in the W3C process, we will need to document how we met those needs. Most of the groups have their own self-review questionnaires.   
* Heather:  
  * Any champion volunteers?  
* Wendy:  
  * This [issue](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/652) is for the FedCM spec. But other specs moving forward will also get the full complement of those horizontal reviews.  
* Heather:  
  * (I am) Interested in internationalization.  
  * Any others? Not yet.  
* Heather (TPAC)  
  * (TPAC Agenda is) Alphabetical according to time block.   
* Ben:  
  * Is FedCM in practice (the session) different from the demo that is on the agenda for our meeting?  
* Sam:  
  * Gioele on the call from Shopify who is giving that demo.  
* Gioele:  
  * Will be looking at FedCM and passkeys, was more for people not on the WG. Beyond the demo, there is room for conversation  
* Ben  
  * (I am just) Clarifying what is on the agenda.   
* Sam:  
  * Explaining how FedCM works. Request, privacy, and properties (in the WG demo, not the Shopify demo). More technical details  
* Wendy:  
  * Anybody travelling to the US about TPAC, happy to help to figure out travel logistics.



# Attendees 

* Beckett LeClair (he/him) (5Rights)  
* Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)  
* Aaron Parecki (Okta)  
* Joel Antoci (Shopify)  
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))  
* Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)  
* Erica Kovac (Google Chrome)  
* Tim Cappalli (Okta)  
* Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd.)  
* Zacharias Törnblom (SUNET / SeamlessAccess)  
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net) (independent, Solid CG)  
* Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)  
* Iris Ren (HUAWEI)  
* Steffi Dobretzberger (DAASI International)  
* Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)  
* Simone Onofri (W3C)  
* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)