# FedID CG call (Atlantic), 25 June 2024

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Judith Bush

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   <u>[Community Group
           Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)</u>

        -   Updated [<u>W3C Code of
           Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

    -   Report out from FedCM implementors (IDPro webinar) 10 July 2024
       @ 08:00 UTC-7 - [<u>Registration
       link</u>](https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZMpdOirrjgoG9I2Yvf9oX3wPFh4lMxQzDOu)

    -   TPAC 2024
       [<u>Registration</u>](https://www.w3.org/2024/09/TPAC/) is now
       open (23-27 September 2024)

-   Hybrid meeting [<u>read
   out</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2024/2024-06-21-WG-CG-hybrid-notes.md)
   and [<u>CG -&gt; WG transition
   process</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SflJDyMFxt5dBvfRRzUs1fDa4c9KZmkDpfuYf75i9rI/edit)

-   FedCM

    -   Any new implementations?

    -   Next steps to transition the core spec to the WG -

        -   text to highlight where we have known gaps and/or incubation
           on solutions still required

        -   post to the WG mailing list requesting input on publishing
           the revised spec as a FPWD

        -   nice-to-have (for now) = additional spec editor(s)

    -   Tagging issues

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Administrivia
-------------

Heather addressed the reminders, ensured a scribe (Judith Bush), and
noted the FedCM implementation demo of FedCM: Report out from FedCM
implementors (IDPro webinar) 10 July 2024 @ 08:00 UTC-7 -
[<u>Registration
link</u>](https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZMpdOirrjgoG9I2Yvf9oX3wPFh4lMxQzDOu)
‚Äì Attendance is open, must register to get zoom

TPAC is coming up in Sept, registration is open (Current Fee: Early Bird
‚Äì until 16 July 2024 00:00 UTC: USD 90) There is a [<u>draft
agenda</u>](https://www.w3.org/2024/09/TPAC/schedule.html) including
meetings for FedCM/WG: TPAC 2024
[<u>Registration</u>](https://www.w3.org/2024/09/TPAC/) There will
likely be conflicts. ‚ÄúConflicts amongst sessions or participants? üòÇ‚Äù
‚ÄúYes‚Äù

-   Do see the hybrid meeting [<u>read
   out</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2024/2024-06-21-WG-CG-hybrid-notes.md)
   and [<u>CG -&gt; WG transition
   process</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SflJDyMFxt5dBvfRRzUs1fDa4c9KZmkDpfuYf75i9rI/edit)

-   We will likely have another meeting before TPAC; be on the lookout
   for a doodle poll.

-   Decisions on how to use GitHub to manage intellectual property
   differences between CG & WG forthcoming.

FedCM New implementations or updates? 
-------------------------------------

-   Phil Smart asked about CORS requirements ‚Äî RP and allowed origins
   header. Should IdP be required to list all the origins of RPs?

    -   Christian: **the IdP echoes the incoming origin header**. The
       API is a standard request and requires the headers, **no
       preflight check at the browser.** Must also check
       SEC-FETCH-DEST.

    -   Side discussion about SameSite=Lax and SameSite=None on the
       account call being under discussion

### Next steps to transition the core spec to the WG 

Heather elaborated on the outline of next steps:

-   text to highlight where we have known gaps and/or incubation on
   solutions still required

    -   Heather asks participants need to do this ‚Äì see below

-   After that addition, post to the WG mailing list requesting input on
   publishing the revised spec as a FPWD

    -   The \*first\* public working draft is a critical step, unlike
       later working drafts

    -   Probably due to processes and signals for legal steps

-   nice-to-have (for now) = additional spec editor(s)

    -   Please contact Heather and Wendy regarding your questions and
       interest in participation in this role!

Heather refers to the issues that Ben provided the F2F meetings, Ben
agrees that those are ex

Judith: Don‚Äôt believe we‚Äôve heard consensus around gaps in the spec for
FedCM to replace existing authentication flows, versus being used by
them. Are we talking more about that?

Heather‚Äôs impression is that we are aware that FedCM is not sufficient
to replace existing authentication protocols; we leave open finding
solutions, but we are clear FedCM is insufficient to handle
navigational-based tracking and only addresses 3rd party cookies.

Judith: We‚Äôre working on a spec that‚Äôs not sufficient to address
navigational tracking

Heather: That‚Äôs my impression

Sam: The charter SHOULD encompass coming up with alternative bindings
that are distinguishable from tracking. This is different from any
‚Äúgaps‚Äù the spec may have.

Sam: Happy to codify in text that the FPWD is not sufficient for
migrating established protocols

Ben: If we are trying to build something that is perfectly private but
doesn‚Äôt cover important use cases, there is a trade off there that we
need to think about. I would prefer to see something that supports a
loud consent but also allows a bounce.

Can there be more than one candidate recommendation? Multiple APIs,
specs? ‚Äî Yes,

Sam: We can have multiple work items ‚Äî like an enterprise profile that
lowers the bar. FedCM doesn‚Äôt have to be a replacement for SAML & OAuth

The CG can come up with a proposal.

Sam: What are the blockers meant for?

Heather: Blocking the FPWD? We need to highlight the known issues, but
not FIX them. These are blockers for the candidate recommendation that
need to be represented in the FPWD

Wendy: To Sam's point, FPWD the working group‚Äôs consensus is to publish
a sense of the working group that this is a direction worth pursuing.
The mechanics don‚Äôt commit the group to ONLY filling those gaps.

TIm: Concerned that FedCM is not going to satisfy this

Judith: For hop-to-hop, FedCM appears to be sufficient. But many higher
ed use cases use chained auth flows, and that‚Äôs a significant barrier
for the rest of the flow to be replaced by FedCM; you need SAML and
OAUTH behind.

Tim: Just being careful about statements ‚Äúthat won‚Äôt work‚Äù ‚Äî there are
many use cases with one redirect, and those can be replaced

Judith: Navigational tracking needs to be discussed. This is not
sufficient for us to say it solves the bounce-tracking problem.

Aaron: We should be very specific about the gaps ‚Äî it‚Äôs not any one
protocol, but any time you need more than one hop. Whatever protocol,
it‚Äôs multiple redirects, where FedCM only establishes two. Let‚Äôs try to
say that clearly

Brian: We don‚Äôt want to make vague scary statements, but I have seen
discussions in privacy CG that ‚ÄúFedCM will fix‚Äù the bounce tracking
problem. We cannot absolve other efforts in mitigating bounce tracking.
We want to agree on *accurate* messaging that doesn‚Äôt overpromise the
privacy solution but doesn‚Äôt scare implementers from adoption.

-   Heather has an action item here

Sam has a label for other blockers ‚Äî ‚ÄúChrome‚Äù ‚Äî to be added to this
issue collection. Assuming Heather will be collecting, and that we (the
CG) will review. Possibly a 70% overlap with Ben‚Äôs list.

Do we have any other issues/topics
----------------------------------

Ben Heads up that prototyping for lightweight FedCM is going along,
expected to be in the nightly build sometime in July.

Sam says Chrome is planning to spend time this year on a prototype for
the lightweight FedCM. (Maybe Q3?)

Pacific call next week!
-----------------------

July 2 Atlantic meeting will be pulled off the calendar, possibly will
be the GitHub discussion.

Queue 
=====

-   &lt;please use Zoom hand-raise&gt;

Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, CG and WG co-chair)

-   Tim Cappalli (Okta, co-chair)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping ‚Äúnot the golf equipment company or the W3C
   privacy group‚Äù Identity)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   Aaron Parecki (Okta)

-   Phil Smart (Jisc/Shibboleth)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   [<u>elf Pavlik</u>](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
   (independent, Solid CG)

-   Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Steffi Dobretzberger (DAASI International)

-   Judith Bush (REFEDS)

-   Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd.)

-   Nicol√°s Pe√±a Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   [<u>Ted Thibodeau</u>](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him)
   ([<u>OpenLink Software</u>](https://www.openlinksw.com/))
