# FedID CG/WG Notes - 12 November 2024 (Atlantic)

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan

* Scribe: Greenbriar College, Wendy Seltzer


# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
  * Reminders:   
    * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)  
* Lightweight FedCM  
  * [Concern: Contextual Integrity violation](https://github.com/fedidcg/LightweightFedCM/issues/50)  
  * [Aligning Lightweight FedCM with IdP Registration re: 'type'](https://github.com/fedidcg/LightweightFedCM/issues/49)  
* FedCM Issues  
  * [Horizontal Review preparation](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/652)  
* FedCM PR Review  
  * [Specify the mode API](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/660)  
  * [Specify the continuation API](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/662)  
* AOB

# Notes

* Formal objection: council has been formed, will review the team report, deliberate, and make a determination whether something should change or the objection is rejected.  
  * Link to report: [https://www.w3.org/2024/10/team-report-fedid-wg-fo.html](https://www.w3.org/2024/10/team-report-fedid-wg-fo.html)   
* Lightweight FedCM  
  * Concern: contextual integrity violation  
    * Johann: Issue filed by Ben (Mozilla). Probably have to wait for Ben to have a real discussion. Maybe should be discussed in the context of FedCM overall rather than Lightweight FedCM specifically.  
* FedCM  
  * Horizontal review preparation  
  * Internationalization review was submitted; has some items for our consideration  
  * Wendy: Still looking for internal champions for accessibility review. Accessibility is an important aspect, we need to make sure we have API affordances to meet accessibility requirements for people with disabilities, for example with assistive environments, cognitive accessibility. Starting early is a good way to make sure we take all needs into account. To learn more and/or get involved: W3C team of experts will help; they need our help to understand the API and where accessibility is needed.  
  * PR review: specifying mode API  
    * Sam: Might need Ben on the call to discuss.  
    * Heather: Anything else required or under discussion?  
    * Sam: Got other Google-internal approvals, just looking for cross-browser feedback.  
    * Sam: What bar should be met before we merge PRs?  
    * Heather: We should be careful to request reviews from the necessary people before merging. Once those reviews happen we can merge; we don't have to wait for a call.  
    * Sam: The concern is that this has been pending review since TPAC.  
    * Nicolas: This PR is blocked, we can't merge until Ben (?) reviews and approves.  
    * Sam: We've been using the FPWD-blocker marker as a heuristic for ensuring we get thorough reviews before merging. Mozilla marked this as a blocker.  
    * Heather: If they marked this as a blocker, they ought to review.  
    * Sam: We want to make sure people feel that we've addressed the blocker.  
    * Heather: Yes, and even a comment saying someone has looked at something is super important.  
  * PR review: continuation API  
    * Sam: Phil prototyped against this API, could have feedback?  
    * Phil: Yes, from an IdP perspective: would continue\_on field be better placed elsewhere?  
    * Sam: Makes sense, renaming the dictionary would be good too. Architecturally speaking it's the right dictionary, but named poorly. Wouldn't create a backward compatibility problem to rename it.  
    * Nicolas: Request is to allow both (?) to be passed, but what semantics do you expect? The point of continue\_on is to later be ???   
    * Phil: I wouldn't give a token and continue\_on at the same time, so thought they could be in different dictionaries.  
    * Christian: It's just a JSON object. Not really a dictionary, that's just a shorthand for a JSON object. Maybe it could be a union of multiple objects.  
    * Phil: I can't see a use case where you'd reply with both the token and continue\_on at the same time.  
    * Christian: I agree, it doesn't really make sense to have both. Not sure if there's a way to encode in the dictionary that they shouldn't both be present. We could make it an error if you think that's better.  
    * Phil: From an IdP perspective, I want to make the choice (of object type) beforehand.  
    * Sam: My suggestion is to rename the dictionary to make it less confusing. The problem is that it's called identity provider token, which is confusing. I added a comment to the PR with that suggestion.  
    * Sam: @Phil If you could post something supportive (if you feel supportive), that would be very helpful.  
    * Sam: This PR is also one that Ben marked as a FPWD-blocker.  
    * Heather: I'll reach out to Ben.  
* Sam: We have a queue of 7-8 PRs, one for each proposal. We weren't sure how to go about those, should we add agenda+ to all of them?  
* Heather: Yes, and you can put them in some priority order. I will ask people to pre-review before meetings.  
* Judith: I've been out of the loop, just checking: I can view a version of the spec, but that version doesn't have all the changes, so I need to go to each PR and read the spec preview from the PR in order to understand its effect?  
  * Christian: Yes, there's no preview where all the changes are integrated.  
  * Judith: And the order of the PRs doesn't matter, because they change different parts?  
  * Christian: Mostly order doesn't matter, might be some (minor?) places where it matters.  
  * Sam: We've been deliberate in going through the PRs in a specific order, starting with mode API, so start there. The other PRs are much smaller.  
* Phil: @Sam question about delegation-oriented thing. (scribe didn't catch rest of question)  
* Sam: We’d love to talk about a few things we recently sent.   
  * Intent to ship happens at the end of the chrome launch process, after origin trials for \~2 years.   
  * Intent-to-protype is much earlier  
  * We sent intent to prototype for authentication @@   
  * Lightweight has many aspects, important one is difference between push and pull model  
  * Lightweight allows you to push data to the browser, vs pull. You have to keep data fresh  
  * Different token types. The construction we have now is pull-based, get JWTs on the fly.   
  * The delegation model has a hard part re: presentation, independent of whether the token gets to the browser via push or pull.   
  * See announcements:  
    * [https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/rwu9wFl0mF4?e=48417069](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/rwu9wFl0mF4?e=48417069)   
    * [https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/SHwv5GsjLfY?e=48417069](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/SHwv5GsjLfY?e=48417069)   
    * [https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/4arGqVW6V\_Y?e=48417069](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/4arGqVW6V_Y?e=48417069)   
* Phil: Lightweight mode, IDP mints token for general. Seems in line with the delegated version, VCs, work on digital wallets. In this case the browser is the holder.  
* Sam: Yes  
* Phil: Would it be opinionated about the protocols it uses, e.g. OpenID4VC, or a mediated approach where it’s less opinionated?  
* Sam: Intent-to-prototype, many of these Qs are TBD. Can share my mental model: there’s a well-defined interface between verifiers, holders, issuers. Browser implements the holder interface. So could any other website. A 3d-party website could act as a holder. The interface is not defined. I think it might be overkill to go too deep. With extensibility comes complexity, examining tradeoffs. Bootstrapping components is important; making the browser the holder lets us make the transition smoother, not making users have wallets. Transition from 2-party to multi-party model without having to make the user do a lot of work. An intersection with Lightweight, also with Digital Credentials. We don’t yet know all the connections. DC uses a different shape.   
* Johann: Good overview. Give Lightweight potential to share a token, mediate storage access. We have complexity to work through. Differentiation between delegation-oriented and @@. What does the UI look like, how does the user know there’s a private version available? We have to think about that collectively.  
* Sam: I agree we need to learn as we go. I think about the transition from HTTP to HTTPS, where there was a long ramp-up, two working simultaneously, then at a later point, more warnings.  
* Johann:Longstanding discussion of social login, needs to grant storage access, and whether the analogy holds as more/less secure.  
* Heather: I have IIW notes on the FedCM/Digital Credentials breakout \= [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ntpuscpzbgzb4KJFyPrRfJZiXCh8H5WfokR4Dm0Ewlg/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ntpuscpzbgzb4KJFyPrRfJZiXCh8H5WfokR4Dm0Ewlg/edit?usp=sharing)   
* elf: Going back to comparison between Lightweight and FedCM, FedCM for IndieAuth uses access token @@, how does that work with Lightweight?  
* Sam: 2 answers: 1st, Lightweight is a push model for the accounts endpoint, not for the ID assertion endpoint. You either have to expose an identity assertion endpoint or. .. If we get the delegated version into FedCM, push SDJWT to the browser, Lightweight could push both to the browser, account and token to allow the browser to do a presentation. What I hear is part of the framing for Lightweight is to do everything client-side, so it becomes easier/cheaper. If we get to the delegated version, everything can be done client-side — you can just become an issuer, issue creds and step out.   
* Phil: If you’re an issuer in VC case,   
* Sam: Really glad to see all the effort to bring DC to the same WG, because starting to see even more overlap between the models. Delegated model brings issuer-holder-verifier 3-party model.   
* Phil: Do you see FedCM supporting multiple modes? Or converging on delegation?   
* Sam:  We need verifier-verifier unlinkability. Cryptographers say zero-knowledge proofs have gotten much better, so we can get verifier-verifier as well as verifier-issuer unlinkability. Then, we have better user experience, cheaper to operate, and privacy. Short-term, not mutually exclusive.   
* Phil: Different use cases with different requirements.   
* Sam: Something that calms me down is we don’t have to decide: websites will make choices that help guide us.  
* Heather: (from chat) elf asks, is that related to self-issued OpenID Provider v2?  
* Sam: Talk a lot with John, Christina, OpenID connect folks. We don’t yet know the connections among all these things. My impression is that regulation pushes some choices in EIDAS, not a 3-party model… would it evolve… figure it out through prototyping  (see https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/5962468)



# Attendees (sign yourself in)

* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)  
* Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLink Software)  
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net) (independent, Solid CG)  
* Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)  
* Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)  
* Judith Bush (REFEDS)  
* Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)  
* Ryan Galluzo (NIST)  
* Shannon Roddy  
* Iris Ren (Huawei)  
* Alan Buxey (myUnidays)  
* Ryan Galluzzo (NIST)  
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)  
* Simone Onofri (W3C)