#FedID CG call (Atlantic), 14 May 2024

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Judith Bush

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Judith Bush

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
        Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   Updated [<u>W3C Code of
        Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

    -   Hybrid meetings, 20 June 2024 in Mountain View, CA

        -   WICG Digital Credentials hybrid meeting, 21 June 2024 in
        Mountain View, CA

    -   Future calls

        -   May 28 (Atlantic) and June 3 (Pacific) will be cancelled

-   Proposal: [<u>FedID CG and WG
process</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gxf3HG-W8py4WzW4Pv761oVy_LHmx6CpzmHZajdDKRE/edit)

-   [<u>CrossSiteCookieAccessCredential
update</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/CrossSiteCookieAccessCredential)

-   FedCM

    -   [<u>Suppressing permission prompt in FedCM UI for custom
    scopes</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/559)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Administrivia
-------------

DO NOTE There will be a couple hybrid meetings in June

-   Kick off for working group, community welcomes 20 June 2024 in
Mountain View, CA

-   WICG Digital Credentials hybrid meeting, 21 June 2024 in Mountain
View, CA

-   Re chartering going on with working group to include Digital
Credentials, but unlikely to be resolved by the hybrid meetings

Call on May 28 canceled (Identiverse)

Pacific call on June 3 canceled as chairs at conference in Berlin

Proposal: FedID CG and WG process
---------------------------------

Concern: not everyone in the CG is able to join WG. CG valuable for
incubation of ideas, changes, questions, comments… However, WG is where
standardization takes place. Current state in planning process available
at
[<u>https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gxf3HG-W8py4WzW4Pv761oVy\_LHmx6CpzmHZajdDKRE/edit</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gxf3HG-W8py4WzW4Pv761oVy_LHmx6CpzmHZajdDKRE/edit)

Stage 0 & 1 — incubation in community group

Stage 2–4 — Working group with more strict IPR rules and participation
demands

Sam notes this is like the TC39 (ISO group) process used for
standardizing JavaScript. W3C does not have a strict process for CG →
WG, with a range of patterns, no standardization. W3C is looking at the
documentation we are going through for the process to disseminate
further.

Brian Campbell: Last week, a presentation to OAuth, implied some
profiling will occur. How will that (outside of W3C) impact the process
with the Working Group? The CG and WG will need many joint meetings.
Everything the WG does is public, so external groups will see the
proposals. There are overlaps in participation, and discussions for
liaisons to participate.

Sam Goto: Digital Credentials and OpenID have similar tensions of
different standards bodies with interdependencies.

Brian: Is the FedCM hope that OAuth/OpenID builds on top?

Judith: Hoping FedCM stays protocol neutral so different protocols like
SAML can build a profile. (While OASIS is no longer an active Technical
committee, Kantara may be a venue to extend SAML2Int.)

Heather: An OAuth profile of FedCM in a W3C group would not be
appropriate; instead, let’s keep communication open.

Ryan Galluzzo: Would like to have more formal and structured
conversation with OIDF and OIDC leadership. NIST is willing to help!

Simone: there are liaisons in development between W3C and OIDF. Looking
to include other stakeholders as well, look at Charter’s section
“Coordination”. Working group output (including minutes) is open so that
the community can participate through comments and other engagement. It
is also possible to join as an [<u>Invited
Expert</u>](https://www.w3.org/invited-experts/).

[<u>CrossSiteCookieAccessCredential update</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/CrossSiteCookieAccessCredential) (Ben VanderSloot) 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See
[<u>https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1F-upvc5F0u63U\_QX9nBacJRmEmHe1aE-J7LPhlKrheY/edit\#slide=id.g2dbcfe40e22\_0\_0</u>](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1F-upvc5F0u63U_QX9nBacJRmEmHe1aE-J7LPhlKrheY/edit#slide=id.g2dbcfe40e22_0_0)

-   General refactoring

-   Johann is Co-Author

-   UI Hints are available

    -   more presentation options for IdP

-   Dynamic allows via CORS link need to be on the RP request too

    -   protects from tracking

    -   does require out of band coordination

-   Not a new Credential type — instead a mode of FedCM

    -   Too much semantic overlap to keep separate

    -   Thorny bit —

        -   only one style of discovery available to a provider at once

        -   Button mode \`mode: "button"\` ⇒ the provider with
        \`loginURL\` also has \`loginTarget: “popup”\`

-   Open question: Would adding a .well-known requirement for
not-yet-logged-in IDPs be too much for this “Lightweight” version?
Websites would have to opt in to show up in a list by publishing a
.well-known.

    -   George Fletcher felt this was reasonable

    -   An RP could put arbitrary sites in a credential chooser which
    might create false sense of participation

    -   Aaron Parecki thinks that top level (TLD+1) .well-known is hard
    given the control of subdomains can be very different.

        -   Judith concurs and had thought we had established
        .well-known at origin — apparently wrong understanding.

    -   From chat

        -   Sam Goto to Everyone (May 14, 2024, 11:31)
        https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/580

        -   Ben, Aaron was exploring exposing the .well-known file
        through DNS, which may (?) make it easier for IdPs, in
        case you find that the .well-known file is too much of an
        imposition.

    -   Shannon Roddy to Everyone (May 14, 2024, 11:33)

        -   Do I understand correctly that this presupposes that a RP
        will always know what IdPs it trusts? This is not
        necessarily true in a federation with trust frameworks.

            -   RP is expected to know IdPs

            -   ​​Judith: Higher education Federations include hundreds
            of IdPs
            [<u>https://edugain.org/</u>](https://edugain.org/) —
            https://technical.edugain.org/entities lists 5647 IdPs

            -   Shannon: It’s also more deeply layered than that. I can,
            as an RP, say “I only want to trust the IdPs vetted by
            the federation \*and\* that are R&S compliant IdPs as
            indicated in their signed metadata.”

*Discussion:*

\[Judith missed the details of part of the discussion\]

Sam expressed happiness with this moving forward. See Up to Date
Copy-Paste Example in slides

-   What comes first? Snippets can run in either order

-   The UI comes up at navigator.credentials.get({identity:
identityInit, where the first time user must do the click

-   The IdP for() loop is executed in the button request flow

-   Assumption the user has gone to the IdP through the login flow but
not necessary

-   Some concern about the transmission of RP to IdP but that occurs
after the user has chosen an IdP — not an Account chooser.

George: if a credential already exists — it follows the silent —
Consider that backend says “credential no longer good” (timeout or other
trigger) — how does that play into this experience?

\[Popup\]

George: concern about popups getting lost, need the popups to stay up;
also IdP needs to be able to signal that the IdP needs the user’s
attention

Ben: Big Fan of redirect — do redirect to IdP to reestablish
credentials. The script on the relying party could fire a window open to
navigate away….

George: The credential at the RP contains the IdP and will enable
changing the user back to the IdP…. the credential store itself could
contain anything — an encrypted IdP Hint? IdToken binding…

Ben: Yes, could drop the signature …

Issue 559 [<u>Suppressing permission prompt in FedCM UI for custom scopes</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/559)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sam: note that we are actively working on this and trying to untangle
related issues (like requiring email addresses from IdPs, make that
optional?) Skipping consent, disclosure request from IdPs. Aware that
this should not play the same role as OAuth scope consent. Pass scope
request in params.

Tag in github — agendaplus — to be included in next agenda

If needed

11:01:30 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

Scribing doc (please ADD YOUR NAME) -
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O7Rn8Aj4rsYWohdEP61lnGdgkai0xTZFQgm7XEA0RBM/edit

11:03:11 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

Scribing doc (please ADD YOUR NAME) -
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O7Rn8Aj4rsYWohdEP61lnGdgkai0xTZFQgm7XEA0RBM/edit

11:07:56 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gxf3HG-W8py4WzW4Pv761oVy\_LHmx6CpzmHZajdDKRE/edit

11:10:10 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

TC39

11:10:29 From Simone Onofri, W3C (he/him) to Everyone:

https://tc39.es/process-document/

11:11:00 From Ryan Galluzzo, NIST ACD to Everyone:

This is extremely helpful. The discussions in the WICG have struggled
with the same question of “when is something incubated enough"

11:11:43 From Simone Onofri, W3C (he/him) to Everyone:

also, W3C process is always updated

11:15:53 From George Fletcher to Everyone:

+1 for enabling a “profile” of OpenID Connect via of FedCM

11:20:41 From Heather Flanagan (she/hers) to Everyone:

Scribing doc (please ADD YOUR NAME) -
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O7Rn8Aj4rsYWohdEP61lnGdgkai0xTZFQgm7XEA0RBM/edit

11:23:03 From Ben VanderSloot to Everyone:

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1F-upvc5F0u63U\_QX9nBacJRmEmHe1aE-J7LPhlKrheY/edit\#slide=id.g2dbcfe40e22\_0\_0

11:24:20 From Simone Onofri, W3C (he/him) to Everyone:

Reacted to "https://docs.google...." with 👍

11:28:38 From George Fletcher to Everyone:

In regards to “popup” mode, that would be a popup window controlled by
the browser that would remain on top of the main browser window?

11:31:24 From Sam Goto to Everyone:

https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/580

11:32:30 From Sam Goto to Everyone:

Ben, Aaron was exploring exposing the .well-known file through DNS,
which may (?) make it easier for IdPs, in case you find that the
.well-known file is too much of an imposition.

11:33:27 From Shannon Roddy to Everyone:

Do I understand correctly that this presupposes that a RP will always
know what IdPs it trusts? This is not necessarily true in a federation
with trust frameworks.

11:39:50 From Judith Bush to Everyone:

Higher ed Federations include hundreds of IdPs https://edugain.org/

11:40:40 From Judith Bush to Everyone:

https://technical.edugain.org/entities lists 5647 IdPs

11:41:40 From Shannon Roddy to Everyone:

It’s also more deeply layered than that. I can, as an RP, say “I only
want to trust the IdPs vetted by the federation \*and\* that are R&S
compliant IdPs as indicated in their signed metadata.”

11:43:34 From Phil Smart to Everyone:

I think you’d need to seed these APIs post IdP discovery, currently.

11:43:45 From Phil Smart to Everyone:

\*In those cases.

Queue 
=====

-   &lt;please use Zoom hand-raise&gt;

Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Judith Bush (REFEDS)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)

-   Aaron Parecki (Okta)

-   Steffi Dobretzberger (DAASI International)

-   Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)

-   Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)

-   Zacharias Törnblom (SUNET, SeamlessAccess)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Simone Onofri (W3C)

-   Oliver Rickard (Wiley/Atypon)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth)

-   Karen Larson

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   [<u>Ted Thibodeau</u>](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([<u>OpenLink Software</u>](https://www.openlinksw.com/))

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, co-chair)

-   Ryan Galluzzo (NIST)

-   Shannon Roddy (self, UC Berkeley)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Ashima Arora (Google Chrome)

