# FedID CG/WG Telecon notes, 2024-10-15 (Atlantic)

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan

* Scribe: Michael Knowles

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
  * Reminders:   
    * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)  
  * Upcoming meetings  
    * CG/WG Pacific \- 21/22 October  
    * WG call \- 22 October  
    * IIW \- 29-31 October  
* FedCM PR Review  
  * [Specify the mode API](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/660)  
* Session Proposals for IIW  
* AOB  
  * (Ben)

# Notes

* [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)  
  * Simone  
    * Forming council in progress  
    * After call will finish first draft  
    * Then one week for review and then present  
  * Heather  
    * How many on council?  
  * Simone  
    * Around 7 people (from pool of \~20)  
  * Heather  
    * Additional bit of info — during side-meetings there is a person, Jeremy Grant, who has been working with ACLU in US, and ACLU had position paper that builds on one from 2021 on how to properly deploy mDLs  
    * Current one has same concerns as noted in our formal objection  
    * Concerned about how Digital Credentials could allow more information to be shared  
    * So they are advocating to “do it right” rather than not do it at all  
    * Interesting to hear that there are other organizations that have political clout having same conversations  
  * Simone  
    * Also thinking about threats   
    * Involves people working on Zero Knowledge Proofs, especially in conjunction with Quantum  
  * Heather  
    * Re: Post-quantum — peer reviewed paper from China that scientists have successfully used Quantum computers to break RSA  
* Upcoming meetings  
  * Heather  
    * Next week, joint meeting is a Pacific time zone meeting  
    * Will use this timeslot next week for FedID WG call  
    * Still haven’t built agenda yet  
    * Week after, these calls will be canceled due to IIW attendance  
    * Can brainstorm here on potential topics for IIW  
  * [Specify the mode API (Pull \#660)](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/660)  
    * Also, as a side note — we will do another PR review for the \<??\> API  
    * A little more contentious  
    * Ben will be back later in the call  
  * Zach  
    * I can talk to this  
    * (will discuss without Ben for now)  
    * Pretty straightforward Spec PR, a bit bigger  
    * Now that we support Active Mode, want to pass in a parameter that includes Passive and Active  
    * Passive is the default  
    * A couple of instances where, if there is an existing passive mode request, we can replace with Active  
    * And we do a user activation check if it is an Active mode request  
    * Those are the main changes to the check  
  * Heather  
    * Who has looked at it?  
  * Phil  
    * Assume this is the Button Mode and Widget Mode used to be  
    * Does it work the same way as before, just labeled differently?  
  * Zach  
    * Yes, this is exactly the same as Button and Widget  
  * Phil  
    * Is Active Mode single-IdP and Passive Mode multi-IdP?  
  * Zach  
    * Yes, correct.   
    * Although Multi-IdP is not yet in the spec  
    * Intention is to have two modes  
  * Phil  
    * Makes sense — have used both of those in the past  
    * Button Mode, we have requirements for Multi-IdP there too  
    * So, if it is the same, that is fine  
  * Zach  
    * Button Mode with Multi-IdP is something we are interested in exploring too  
  * Heather  
    * Zach: Do you have questions you want answered in this PR?  
    * (don’t want to go through it line-by-line, but if there are specific things?  
  * Zach  
    * No real specific questions  
    * Seemed to have been a lot more straightforward than we had anticipated  
    * So if anyone else has any questions?  
  * Sam  
    * One question: This PR fits just one of the CR blockers that had been raised: [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/active-mode/issues/2](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/active-mode/issues/2)   
    * Deals with logged-out users (“A logged out user has no path to success”)  
    * We are introducing Active Mode to allow logged-out users to log in, in this case  
    * Does this PR resolve the concern that had been raised previously?  
  * Phil  
    * Yes, this is the second of the things that we had needed from Button Mode; now Active Mode (listing the IdPs and allowing users to log in)  
  * Heather  
    * Some of the people we’d like to comment (Aaron Parecki and Ben VS) aren’t on the call at the moment  
  * Sam  
    * Ben has confirmed that this strategy would satisfy his initial concern   
    * Not in the spec yet, but at least informally, on the GitHub issue, he said this would resolve it [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/active-mode/issues/2\#issuecomment-2341644914](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/active-mode/issues/2#issuecomment-2341644914)   
    * Aaron also used this in the past in one of his prototypes  
  * Phil  
    * Problem would be if you tried to use Button Mode when you have Multiple IdPs and haven’t logged into them, or you have lots and lots of IdPs; that would be still be a potential issue  
    * But if you are only supporting the one IdP it is fine  
  * Sam  
    * Yes, we haven’t gotten to multiple IdPs with Button Mode yet, but we haven’t cornered ourselves  
    * But if you add in the Lightweight Credentials it might be more alleviated  
    * Still wouldn’t handle the Seamless Access / 5,000 IdPs case we have in Research & Education  
    * But for cases with \~10 IdPs it should be ok  
    * For Research & Education, we would do IdP Selection in Userland, and then use FedCM with the selected IdP  
    * Phil, we’d appreciated in the GitHub issue or Spec PR that this would help you in the original issue — would be helpful to collect that signal  
  * Phil  
    * Yes, I can add that  
  * Heather  
    * For this particular PR  
    * We’ve covered and we can point back to these notes  
    * Do you want to tag Ben and Aaron as reviewers before we merge?  
  * Sam  
    * Can we agree that between Ben, Phil , and Aaron reviewing the PR that would suffice for consensus?  
  * Heather  
    * Yes, based on what we’re hearing that should be fine  
    * Any objections?  
    * Hearing none — that's our plan — will tag Ben and Aaron and Phil as reviewers, and Phil will add his comments / support to the PR and then we can merge the PR once all approved  
  * Heather  
    * One more thing on agenda: Planning for IIW  
    * Any particular topics?  
    * Anything on FedCM side (there are a bunch of things on the wallet side)  
  * SAm  
    * Not sure how to articulate it yet, but spending a lot of time understanding relationship between FedCM, Digital Credentials, and WebAuthn  
    * What do we expect things to move towards?  
    * Do we expect Social Login to not exist in the future?  
    * Not sure how useful it is to ask these questions / project in the future  
    * But it is useful to understand where potential directions are going in the future?  
    * Intersection between FedCM and Passkeys  
    * Between Passkeys and Digital Credential  
    * And between Digital Credentials and FedCM  
    * So they are starting to look similar  
    * But not sure exactly what properties relate to each one (or to the intersections)  
  * Heather  
    * Any other topics?  
    * Hearing nothing else — if you thinking of something let me know  
    * No plans for additional side-meetings given all the meetings on FedCM at TPAC  
    * But come the Spring IIW next year (first full week fo April) we might have specific topics on FedCM?  
  * Phil  
    * Continuation API PR [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/662](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/662)   
    * Added comment on a resolved change   
    * Question that Yi asked: If Continue-On were to provide token response  
    * Maybe people could look at that in the PR?  
  * Yi  
    * Christian [replied](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/662/files/01d8942a9f0979d1d1abbfb796ced8a5b12cef2d#r1790360281) in the PR  
  * Phil  
    * Yes, he did  
    * What would happen if continue-on and token were both present?  
    * There seemed to be an order that Christian alluded to  
    * But why would an IdP respond with all those things?  
    * Should continue-on be in the same dict as token response?  
    * Or should there be a separate dict for with continue-on?  
    * Not sure what the browser would do with that  
    * But it seemed a bit weird if an IdP sent back both token and continue-on URL  
  * Yi  
    * Agreed \- would be a programming error on the IdP’s side  
    * But if the IdP did anyway, there should be a spec’d behavior on how to handle that case  
  * Phil  
    * Yes — it would be an error (was assuming that) but understand the desire to be a bit more resilient to those cases and have more well-defined behavior  
  * Heather  
    * Any more AOBs?  
    * Nothing coming up  
    * Encourage everyone to use Slack channel for any ideas for IIW or anything else



# Attendees (sign yourself in)

* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* Wendy Seltzer (Tucows, Invited Expert)  
* Simone Onofri (W3C)  
* Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)  
* Alan Buxey (MyUNiDAYS Ltd.)   
* Shannon Roddy (self, LBNL)  
* Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)  
* Erica Kovac (Google Chrome)  
* Iris Ren (Huawei)  
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)  
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)  
* Judith Bush (REFEDS)  
* Steffi Dobretzberger (DAASI International)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLink Software)