# FedID CG/WG Telecon, 2024-12-03 (Atlantic)

* Moderator: Heather Flanagan

* Scribe: Erica

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
    * [Erica Kovac](mailto:ekovac@google.com)  
  * Reminders:   
    * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter Formal Objection status](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-review-comments/2024Sep/)  
* FedID CG/WG Process  
  * [Update proposals-CG-WG.md \#12](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/pull/12) \- see also [Issue 11](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/issues/11)  
* FedCM Issues  
  * [Horizontal Review preparation](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/652) \- specifically the Security/Privacy review  
* AOB

# Notes

New attendee: Siddhartha Pandey from MS

hflanagan: No new updates on the recharter, council is discussing next steps, hope to hear back this month

Issue \#11: Processes aren’t aligned with TC39/WHATWG

* hflanagan: Submitted a PR for cleaning up the language around processes  
  * If things differ, it should be for a reason  
* Sam Goto: could we have tl;dr of differences?  
  * hflanagan: Differences in stage 2 and 3\. Stage 2 is a little longer; this is where we refine proposals for solutions to known issues. For stage 3, the purpose is to increase the number of implementations and increase confidence in candidate recommendation; spec should be largely finished by this point, may be small changes to normative content. Ted, Tim, et al also provided contributions.  
* Wendy Seltzer: Does this change impact when things move between CG and WG?  
  * hflanagan: No, no changes to that.  
* goto: Do existing proposals still fit within the newly proposed model?  
  * hflanagan: All stages are still accurate for our current proposals, but this may impact when we are ready to move current stage 2 proposals to stage 3\.  
  * goto: OK, I will look into this PR this week.  
* hflanagan: Please review this PR this week

FedCM Security and Privacy Review

* Phil Smart: Reviewed privacy and security questionnaire answers; Nicolas went through and refined some of the questionnaire answers in response to feedback. Next step is to update the Privacy and Security parts of the spec. If aligned, we will push that out for horizontal review. Have had only a quick look at the spec, already made a suggestion. Question: For the security part, currently organized by mitigations; should we organize by risks/threats and then describe mitigations? Waiting for a response from Nicolas.  
* Nicolas: We should add the section for the token  
  * Next step: Folks should take a look at the current doc (link?) and provide comments and feedback.  
* Wendy Seltzer: This is helpful work; even though the questionnaire isn’t a formal element, it’s still extremely helpful for providing context to reviewers. Group is encouraged to review that doc.

hflanagan: Still looking for people to fill out accessibility and internationalization questionnaire for FedCM

hflanagan: Remaining calendar; call scheduled for the 10th as normal; WG meeting on the 17th; 24th and 31st are cancelled, will start again on Jan 7 \[fill in details from calendar after-the-fact here, couldn’t parse all the details\] 

Phil Smart: Q to Ben: status of firefox implementation of Lightweight FedCM?

* FedCM full status as well?  
  * Ben: Lightweight FedCM implementation was on hold while we were reworking the design; ekovac merged a big PR to the explainer that changed the direction. ekovac will soon be an editor. Firefox will be updating its implementation to match the new design sometime in the new year. New design   
  * Ben: Full FedCM; Firefox changed position to neutral, so implementation of that isn’t a major priority, but is hopeful about lightweight FedCM  
  * Phil Smart: [Table of differences](https://github.com/fedidcg/LightweightFedCM/wiki/Comparing-FedCM-and-Lightweight-FedCM) still applicable?  
  * Ben: Table of differences needs to be updated in light of reworked explainer  
  * Phil Smart: Guessing Apple have not indicated anything?  
    * hflanagan: Not heard anything from Apple  
    * goto, nicolas: nope, nothing yet  
    * goto: Talked to them at TPAC, johann asked them again about it.  
      * The one model that came up that John Wilander seemed interested in was ?  
    * johann: Can’t speak for Apple in this call. We should encourage them to join the CG \[hflanagan: they are members of the WG\]. They asked us for information about our proposals for various Privacy Sandbox features as well as FedCM, but not much to add.  
    * johann: Discussed Login Status with John Wilander; we want to make sure they are aligned with it. High trust Login Status bit seems promising; trying to use various signals to determine whether a user is actively engaged with the site to determine what privacy restrictions can be relaxed.  
    * hflanagan: going to reach out to Apple about attending CG.

hflanagan: Next week we will dive into some of the PRs.

	

# Attendees (sign yourself in)

* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* George Fletcher (Capital One)  
* Sam Goto (Google Chrome)  
* Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)  
* Erica Kovac (Google Chrome)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Tim Cappalli (Okta)  
* Siddhartha Pandey (Microsoft Edge)  
* Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)  
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net) (independent, Solid CG)  
* Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)  
* Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)  
* Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)  
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))  
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)  
* Zacharias Törnblom (SeamlessAccess/SUNET)  
* Pam Dingle (Microsoft)