# FedID CG Telecon, 5th March 2024 (Atlantic)



* Moderator: Achim Schlosser
* Scribe: 

Call-in details: see [https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter: [https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)


# Agenda

* Administrivia
    * Scribe volunteer(s)?
    * Reminders:
        * [Community Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)
        * [W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
    * Federated Identity Working Group - update
* SAML environments
    * [GoogleChromeLabs/privacy-sandbox-dev-support#122](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/privacy-sandbox-dev-support/issues/122)
    * SeamlessAccess findings for Storage Access API (Zaccharias)
    * Where FedCM is not compatible with SAML environments (Judith)
* [Cross Site Cookie Access Credential](https://github.com/fedidcg/CrossSiteCookieAccessCredential)
    * Try to reduce reliance on NASCAR pages - [issue 3](https://github.com/fedidcg/CrossSiteCookieAccessCredential/issues/3)
* FedCM
    * [Move editorship to @npm](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/546)
* AOB

# Notes



* FedID WG - Update
    * Plh:  reviewed 3 comments, can’t say publicly from whom, the first comment … the digital credentials work happening in the WICG got two requests to be added to the charter … usually, when things are still incubating, we don’t have this in WGs … people think it is closer to being ready than it used to be … one comment was that it is a substantive change … would require us starting the process over … a W3C member meeting is happening next month with “identity” as a key subject  … April 9th … 
    * Plh: I would propose chartering as-is, then proposing a recharter to add the Digital Identity Credentials work item, with a second AC vote on that after the member meeting 
    * Achim: originally, we had a bigger scope that included the digital credentials work … over time, we got feedback that that was too broad … so we retracted and narrowed the scope … 
    * Sam: That matches my recollection of events.  That was the intention of having the Digital Credentials as part of the charter, then was narrowed, but now seems to be going back to the original formulation.  Would rather have Digital Credentials as part of the charter — similar people are involved in both efforts  Digital Credentials is definitely further behind in the maturation process.  But it would still be better to include it.  Not sure enough about W3C to offer specific guidance / sequencing, but from a charter scope perspective, it seems worth it.
    * George: The digital credential work is super broad … we want to be very specific about what it is going to cover … there are a lot of related efforts that we wouldn’t want to duplicate …
    * Ben: one reason for the pace of that work is the regulation and the eiDAS that needs a higher same of urgency … it took us a long time to get us to where we are in the FedID WG … it seems like a good idea to reuse that time spent to help with the digital credentials work
    * Plh: I wrote a pull request, [https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/484](https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/484), invite review
    * Achim: hearing consensus that this group would appreciate adding this to the WG scope, but doesn't want to delay chartering. Which procedural tack should we take? Delay to consider expanded scope, or charter now and propose recharter as PLH suggests?
    * PLH: one option takes 2 weeks, the other takes 2.5 months. Your choice when the group wants to start work. Remember, it's the AC reps who need to vote on charter proposals.
    * Sam: instinct, based on the timelines plh mentioned, 2.5 months feels like a reasonable tradeoff to address comments we got and align with larger trends. Nothing massively urgent in forming the WG immediately. Waiting 2 months sounds acceptable. 
    * PLH: my recommendation, take your win, and then try to recharter. You have a charter with no Formal Objections; take that and then move forward on the same timeline
    * Wendy: there is no guarantee that a second round of review will have no other objections
    * Sam: Can we do that without alienating the people who made suggestions for additions? Can we be transparent?
    * PLH: Yes, we can communicate with the companies who provided those comments about plans to update. Especially since they didn’t Formally Object; they anticipated the possibility to move forward in this way
    * Achim: asking Ben regarding the regulatory timeline, does that make sense?
    * Ben: the proposal to take the existing charter, then add a new work item? Since it adds no slowdown for the Digital Credential timeline, that sounds reasonable.
    * Achim: That sounds like a way forward, with your help to avoid alienating 

        the proponents of addition.

    * PLH: [second comment](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/427#issuecomment-1973244230) is more cryptic, [proposing to put security and identity assertion assessment out-of-scope](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/427#issuecomment-1979072305). I am still waiting for feedback from the person but I'd like to first understand whether it makes sense? And then would you like to add to the out-of-scope?
    * Achim: in general, we have considered identity assertion as opaque to our work. There is a generic out-of-scope for this kind of assessment.
    * Sam: First thoughts were that the browser does treat the id-token as opaque — no verification of public keys / appropriate signing of the JWT, etc.  so the browser is out of the loop, so if that is the perspective of the comment then it is fine to leave that out of scope. However the comment itself was a bit ambiguous in that sense.  So it would be good to be more precise — out of scope to define the identity assertion protocol and leave it to OpenID Foundation and SAML to define how and whether the security and confidence of the ID assertion properties.  (just to be clear about which part is being left out)
    * Achim: Paragraph 2.3.7 is a link out to the specific part that is being left out.  Rather than having a big block of text to describe what is being left out, it might be better to point to that link specifically.
    * Sam: If we linked it to the token itself, that would be more specific. 
    * [https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/#dom-identityprovidertoken-token](https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/#dom-identityprovidertoken-token)
    * Identity assertion endpoint is FedCM-specific.  But FedCM is un-opinionated about what is returned from the identity assertion endpoint.  Is there a PR yet?
    * PLH: No — no PR yet.  Reason there is no link to IdP token is that there is no definition of an IdP token
    * Sam: Yes — it is just a string
    * PLH: Seems a bit (underspecified)
    * Achim: If there is a sense there is a problem to specify things, we can maybe create a PR to make it clearer
    * Sam: I’ll make a suggestion in the comment thread
    * PLH: Yes — sounds good — please do.  Another question — looking at charter — interaction with identity wallets is out of scope.  Question is: If digital credential is interaction with identity wallets, then we will have to update the other scope section.  So now we are wondering if it is the right decision to omit this.
    * Achim: Can’t just add a bullet and have a cohesive charter.  Wrote it specifically so they were clearly separated.  And now we are going to want to merge them back together in the next 2.5 months.
    * PLH: Goal is to refine that PR to ensure everything fits together.
    * Achim: So, finalize wording for out-of-scope — propose to do everything through GitHub.
* Charter review comments: [https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/427#issuecomment-1973244230](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/427#issuecomment-1973244230) 
* Pull request:

    [https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/484](https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/484) 

* SAML environments: SeamlessAccess findings for Storage Access API (Zaccharias)
    * [GoogleChromeLabs/privacy-sandbox-dev-support#122](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/privacy-sandbox-dev-support/issues/122)
    * Enrique: Use case in Seamless Access is to access 3P cookies from iframe
    * Anytime after the user has visited the iframe host (Seamless Access at top level) Finding a big difference between FF and Chrome.  Once the user has visited Seamless Access at top level, iframes will be able to access 3P cookies after the user has granted access in Chrome.  But in FF, the state is reset when restarting the session.
    * Demo: Starting with empty Chrome profile — enabled 3P cookies phase-out flag.  Starting demo — stands as an SP with an iframe that would take content from Seamless Access address in the demo.  Seamless Access at the top level would set a cookie (initially no cookie set).  And then if we go to the SP again.  (restarting Chrome, removing Chrome profile, and going to demo again).  Set cookie at top level, and then go to SP and click on the button which calls requestStorageAccess().  Then go to another SP and it cannot access cookies, but if you click on a button that calls requestStorageAccess() again, the cookies are again available.
    * Then go to FF — do the same thing — go to Seamless Access page — set cookie — go back to SP page — click Seamless Access button — in this Browser session it will not be possible to get storage access in this case — only way to get access is to close the browser session and re-open the session and go through the sequence again, but still no access to 3P cookies in iframe unless go to Seamless Access page top level *first* then choose IDP and go to SP and only then is it possible to access 3P cookies in the iframe.
    * This difference between Chrome and FF — would be very rare that in one browser session that the user visits Seamless Access at the top level before visiting the SP page.
    * Ben VanderSloot (implementer of SAA for FF): What you described seems reasonable.  Current discussion on changing this potentially.  Would be very helpful if there is an issue raised on the FF Storage Access repo.
    * Ben: If you’re flagging incompatibility with FF, definitely file an issue
    * Achim: Very specific to SAA — discussion with Ben or PrivacyCG
    * Enrique: Is the conformant behaviour Chrome’s?
    * Ben: Hard to determine what the button in the demo was doing.  Hard to say - both are potentially compliant but would like to support that use-cases
    * Johann: Please file issues in PrivacyCG / STorage Access are as that would help me to also understand the situation better (I work on SAA for Chrome as well)
    * Enrique: The demo comes from the Mobile page
    * Achim: Interest of time — please follow up with Ben and Johann and Privacy CG to discuss further
* OCLC
    * Judith Bush: OCLC works with HIgher Ed and public libraries
    * Participated in Kentaro2 / SAML integration supported across products
    * That WG for SAML has been closed — so no active WG for SAML at the moment
    * SAML binding extensions would need to be in the spirit of SAML
    * But what is being discussed here does not quite meet the spirit of SAML
    * Sequence diagram (below)
    * RP (page in the browser) might use Seamless Access to go through thousands of IDPs to scope it down 
    * Understand that FedCM assumes a much smaller number of of IDPs than SAML
    * In terms of where SAML matches FedCM’s perspective, that is in client-id
    * When SAML makes a request it compresses it to something that is around 1KB + signature — and that goes on a URL string to make it under 2KB
    * Shove this into client-id to make it flow through
    * Not sure how big FedCM is imagining the various components can be
    * Giving config JSON could support multiple IDPs in the origin
    * Specific IDPs could config the origin — and the .well-known could have a specific set of ids, brandings, etc.
    * Understand that there is a principle-specific call and an SP specific call
    * No consent yet — so keep things separate
    * IDP would return accounts associated with the IDP’s cookie
    * Then Browser asks IDP what about this client id
    * Client request gets parsed — what standard of authentication does this request need?  Is a step-up needed?
    * At this point the metadata from the RP could signal the browser — even though user has active sessions, still might need to step-it up / do MFA
    * That’s one step where current FedCM flow would not support that step-up
    * User does consent by doing the account chooser
    * Browser now has user’s consent by picking an account
    * Has IDP’s consent by returning metadata
    * Then it does the POST to do the actual authentication
    * Need to make sure the origin matches
    * THere’s a specific point where the origins match
    * Asking SAML to trust more broadly than it does currently
    * The FedCM’s concept of a boundary is a much broader boundary than SAML trusts
    * That would need a lot of review to ensure that the security properties are preserved.
    * Achim: Would you want to file this somewhere to assess how to integrate SAML into FedCM?
    * Judith: Yes — I’m here to answer why SAML isn’t consistent with this.  Not sure if SAML needs to be consistent.  As long as redirect flows are supported by browsers, SAML doesn’t need to worry about this.  So, I would rather defer filing bugs / issues / until after further discussion.
    * Achim: Continue discussion on PR on GitHub.  Aslo Chrome Announcement
    * Sam: Transitioning of editorship of FedCM from Sam to Nicolas, so Nicolas is now responsible for PRs, etc., going forward.  Still looking for co-editors as we go along.  Should make PR reviewing faster going forward. 






# Queue 



*  &lt;please use Zoom hand-raise>


# Attendees (sign yourself in)



* Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)
* Zacharias Törnblom (Sunet, SeamlessAccess)
* Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)
* Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google Chrome)
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)
* Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net) (independent)
* Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)
* Judith Bush (OCLC, at Heather’s invitation)
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth)
* Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)
* Sam Goto (Google Chrome)
* Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)
* Gary Windham (Cirrus Identity)
* George Fletcher (Capital One)
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)
* Achim Schlosser (netID Foundation) 
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))
* Thiago Diogo (Google Chrome)
