# FedID CG/WG call (Atlantic), 16 July 2024

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Judith Bush

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Judith

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
        Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) or
        [<u>Working Group
        Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)

        -   Updated [<u>W3C Code of
        Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

    -   Webinar for FedCM implementors (IDPro webinar) [<u>recording
    available</u>](https://youtu.be/0OjdqldRvXo?si=O9UIU1VKK4G3lkWS)

    -   Recharter status ([<u>new charter
    text</u>](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/blob/simoneonofri-fedid-beforeac/2024/wg-fedid.html))

    -   Call schedule

        -   Call cancelled 23 July 2024

        -   Pacific call week of 30 July 2024 (no Atlantic call)

        -   WG call 30 July 2024

-   FedCM

    -   New blog post
    ([<u>draft</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16FuJFh-pC3VwIeu2phdux0F64gASVLWPA4YN4cQHIpE/edit))

    -   Issues

        -   <u>[Users can't use IdPs outside of the ones enumerated by
        RPs - issue
        240](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/240)</u>

        -   [<u>A not-yet logged in IDP has no route to success with
        this flow - issue
        442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)

        -   [<u>Passing arbitrary parameters to the ID assertion
        endpoint - issue
        556</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/556)

        -   [<u>Allow RPs to selectively request attributes of the
        user's profile - issue
        559</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/559)

    -   [<u>Chrome UI change for filtered out
    accounts</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11sAhDN7U_GX8ZxemjGYBNFSeM7oLvZS-dd8cWUVY3oA/edit?resourcekey=0-Hy0negLNK4Ue3Jo7-UnSOw)

-   AOB

    -   WG call for consensus for FPWD -
    [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/623</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/623)

Notes
=====

Administrivia — scribe, code of conduct and agreements. See the Webinar
for FedCM implementors (IDPro webinar) [<u>recording
available</u>](https://youtu.be/0OjdqldRvXo?si=O9UIU1VKK4G3lkWS) and the
new blog post
([<u>draft</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16FuJFh-pC3VwIeu2phdux0F64gASVLWPA4YN4cQHIpE/edit)),
now published

Charter

-   AC request is ready

-   We would like to send the request with the Threat Model and a Report
explaining the Identity on the Web, I am finalizing it.

-   The Charter is expected to be released next week

Next week is IETF 120 call canceled, then Pacific CG Monday
night/Tuesday — will be a WG call

(There may be a zoom log in to get to the zoom link in the calendar,
Heather will try to address)

Chrome discusses 4 issues

-   <u>[Users can't use IdPs outside of the ones enumerated by RPs —
issue 240](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/240)</u>

 “IDP Registration” — a few issues to fix before it is fully correct,
 then will have Origin trial, but need a UX as right now we have a
 “allow microphone” kind of prompt. If anyone trying would like to give
 updates?  
 Phil: will there be a check on the config file at the IdP that is
 valid? To ensure all the IdPs are valid before registration.

 Nicholas: will add to todo list to validate the IdP before completing
 registration

-   [<u>A not-yet logged in IDP has no route to success with this flow —
issue 442</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/442)

 “Button Load”  
 Zachary presents Integration with auto re-authentication

 Button load is the notion of calling FedCM through a button click
 instead of onload dialogue in upper right — The deck is here:
 [<u>https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iURrPakaHgBfQ6mAefKijjxToiTTgBSPz1rtaV0od98/edit\#slide=id.g2e9c3a70a9b\_0\_26</u>](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iURrPakaHgBfQ6mAefKijjxToiTTgBSPz1rtaV0od98/edit#slide=id.g2e9c3a70a9b_0_26)

 The Android version is coming out. See Mocks in slide. The account
 chooser may show just one account, but if the IdP offers, it could
 show adding accounts. Once account selected, the consent for IdP to RP
 trust and the disclosure text. Some string changes — RP icon can be
 shown, and RP becomes primary in the consent screen.

 Pam: “sign in” for authenticating at IdP and RP

 Zachary: Yes

 Pam: Whose choice?

 Heather: Language has not been specified in the spec; implementation
 decision for the browser teams

 Achim: Points out that UX affordances are generally implementer’s
 choice when attached to W3C standard

 Pam: Confirms then this is the implementation solution

 Aaron: IdP registration mocks? No from Zachary, No difference in
 Android from browser from

 Nicholas: some discussion about multi-IdPs being reasonable, which
 then would need more UX …. Current mocks are based on single IdP.

 Phil: If you choose "use a different account" — takes you to a CCT
 page rendered by IdP. See Default flow screen \#26. I was confused,
 and thought it was saying ‘log in with another IdP’, but it is ‘login
 with another account at the same IdP’.

 Yi: Not supporting button flow and multi IdP — some observations of
 things that won’t work which will work with button flow. Focus
 currently on single; multi is on radar. Claims that multi IdP isn’t …
 required as much?

 Joel: Continuation IdP on mobile mocs? (Some scanning of the deck;
 does not seem available) Will you come back and see the modal?

 Nicholas: You will not return to the modal, the promise will be
 resolved.

 Zac: Still working on the UX. See Account chooser alternates. Have
 dialog for when still fetching things

 Slide 28 shows the "use different account" flow, only if supported by
 the IdP.

 Phil: Is this calling a new or existing endpoint

 Zac: This is the login URL passed in by the IdP

-   [<u>Passing arbitrary parameters to the ID assertion endpoint —
issue 556</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/556)

 Christian: Everyone agrees in principle; still churning on details. A
 list of arbitrary key value pairs.

 Tim: We should defer this one til after IETF. It will be discussed
 next week.

 Aaron asks if that will be the OAuth working group — Aaron will be
 leading it, can go into the level of detail….

 Heather: High level in meeting fine, hallway convos may “shake this
 free"

 The sticking point is, considering the keys can conflict with built in
 keys, how do we avoid those conflicts? Trial uses a prefix “param\_”
 and prefix built in parts. That’s hard because the existing keys have
 shipped.

 Ben: Anyone adopting did so knowing this was experimental from a
 community group. (We should be able to change) (and changing by
 prefixing the new FedCM parameters and then not prefixing the other
 parameters.)

 Aaron: Having both behaviors available was proposed, ….

 Brian: Also use JSON with structured data without breaking other
 parts….

 Christian: Changing from URL-encoded to JSON would trigger a CORS
 pre-flight instead of a straight POST, and this would impact
 performance

 Ben: also changing the context type from POST to JSON might affect the
 samesite=Lax behaviors.

-   [<u>Allow RPs to selectively request attributes of the user's
profile — issue
559</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/559)

 Christian: New version of the scopes API. Please add comments to
 [<u>the github issue</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/559)

 Phil: Is this about the browser popup?

 Christian: Yes primarily (though will also be sent to the IdP)

 Phil: With the parameters from above, could duplicate.

 Christian: Want to have a FedCM browser mediation behavior, but not
 something as generic as OAuth scopes

Chrome team has idea for filtered out accounts in the UI

Nicolás has google doc for proposal.

Don’t have a UI to show when accounts are filtered out. What happens if
we filter out all? Today we show a “mismatch dialogue” with an offer to
log in at the IdP. In fact if the IdP doesn’t support the types of the
hint, the user may log in (again) and then get mismatched again. So now
the idea would be to show accounts that don’t match, grayed out,
communicating immediately that the account cannot be used. Then, if
there are no valid accounts, the grayed accounts are followed with a
"use different account" function. This would match RP context; domain
hint is usually understandable to the user, so then the domain hint
might be made visible in the “use a different account”.

Pam asks for the criteria of what is not accepted, is this programmatic?

Current behavior is Not shown, proposal is to show grayed out.

Pam: looking for filtering criteria: different issue.

Phil asks about the domain filtered account. How does the system know
that you can sign into mybusinesscompany?

Confirm this is the same IdP with multiple accounts, and the IdP
supports accounts that have certain domains.

Phil notes that you may not be able to have an account that satisfies
the hints.

Then the idP SHOULD limit the user to only signing into the accounts
that satisfy the domain hint.

Recognizing that now there are three entities: the RP, the IdP, and the
domain that has accounts at the IdP.

AOB: for the working group members,

Wendy: Thanks for tagging the issues critical to address before the
candidate recommendation. There are 16 issues in the spec repository
tagged FPWD. Working group will now get a call for consensus to publish
the First Public Working Draft, with these issues noted
([<u>PR</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/623)). Will continue
to discuss new features and incubations with the community group. Watch
for the call to consensus. Silence is considered consent.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)

-   Aaron Parecki (Okta)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Joel Antoci (Shopify)

-   Simone Onofri (W3C)

-   Arthur Coleman (IDPrivacy)

-   Steffi Dobretzberger (DAASI International)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Judith Bush (REFEDS)

-   Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)

-   Tim Cappalli (Okta, co-chair)

-   Chris Fredrickson (Google Chrome)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   [<u>Ted Thibodeau</u>](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him)
([<u>OpenLink Software</u>](http://www.openlinksw.com/))

-   Erica Kovac (Google Chrome)

-   Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)

-   Pamela Dingle (Microsoft)
