README.md, before:

# Federated Identity Community Group Meetings

This repository contains agendas, minutes, and other materials from meetings of the [FedID CG](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/).

([Logistics, agendas, and minutes for 2024](2024/)) for all meetings are in our GitHub meetings repository. We meet in plenary twice a month. We occasionally have ad-hoc calls on specific topics and expect to meet in person at some future W3C TPAC.

The scheduling and logistics of ad hoc calls may vary depending on the topic and expected attendees. Agendas and minutes for such meetings are posted in the same place as our regularly-scheduled plenary calls.

If you would like us to have an ad-hoc call on some topic of interest to you, please [file an issue in this repo](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/issues/new) requesting one! Be sure to tag people you think would be interested.

## Structure

The structure of the repo is as follows:

    yyyy/                      ← top level directories are years
      README.md                ← scheduling notes for the year’s F2Fs
        mm-dd-agenda.md        ← plenary agenda
        mm-dd-minutes.md       ← plenary minutes
        mm-dd-topic-agenda.md  ← ad-hoc agenda
        mm-dd-topic-minutes.md ← ad-hoc minutes
        README.md              ← logistics (how to call in, etc.)

## Code of Conduct

As a W3C Community Group, all work and communication within the FedID CG is covered by the [W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/).

Commit message:

meeting cadence
add calendar link, fix description of meeting cadence

README.md, after:

# Federated Identity Community Group Meetings

This repository contains agendas, minutes, and other materials from meetings of the [FedID CG](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/).

([Logistics, agendas, and minutes for 2024](2024/)) for all meetings are in our GitHub meetings repository. We meet weekly, alternating between times for Europe/Americas and APAC ([calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/fed-id/calendar/)). We occasionally have ad-hoc calls on specific topics and expect to meet in person at some future W3C TPAC.

The scheduling and logistics of ad hoc calls may vary depending on the topic and expected attendees. Agendas and minutes for such meetings are posted in the same place as our regularly-scheduled plenary calls.

If you would like us to have an ad-hoc call on some topic of interest to you, please [file an issue in this repo](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/issues/new) requesting one! Be sure to tag people you think would be interested.

## Structure

The structure of the repo is as follows:

    yyyy/                      ← top level directories are years
      README.md                ← scheduling notes for the year’s F2Fs
        mm-dd-agenda.md        ← plenary agenda
        mm-dd-minutes.md       ← plenary minutes
        mm-dd-topic-agenda.md  ← ad-hoc agenda
        mm-dd-topic-minutes.md ← ad-hoc minutes
        README.md              ← logistics (how to call in, etc.)

## Code of Conduct

As a W3C Community Group, all work and communication within the FedID CG is covered by the [W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/).
