# FedID CG call (Pacific) - 26/27 September 2022

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Heather

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Heather

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   [<u>Charter PR</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/pull/2)

-   slack thread: 
    >"we looked briefly at the possibility of exposing a
 Web Platform API to open isolated enterprise profiles / tabs,
 which could apply enterprise-specific policies, specifically with
 regards to the privacy expectations for BYOD users while keeping
 much of the deployment unchanged. I didn't get a sense then that
 that was something worth exploring from you, but I'm wondering if
 based on what we know today, if that is worth revisiting. WDYT?"

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Charter

-   (Heather) first set of changes are in the Goals; indicating that
 while 3pc are still a priority, work will start on the other
 areas.

-   (Vittorio) we still potentially have stuff to do for cookies;
 deprecation alone doesn’t seem to be the only termination function
 of that focus. We still need to solve for what will fail with 3pc;
 the deprecation is going to happen regardless.

-   (Sam) are you talking about just the logout bit?

-   (Vittorio) that’s just an example. As we look at the various options
 (e.g., permission, mediated models, etc) it seems like there is
 more work to do that we haven’t done yet. There is work we can
 explore more fully

-   (Sam) +1. There are still things that can be tried/explored with
 federation. The bit is one example, the permission model another.
 There are things that can/should be tried and should be our main
 focus. Using the word “expand” seems to be right; focus is on
 deprecation of 3pc, but it’s ok to start looking at more. We’re in
 philosophical alignment and can wordsmith in the PR itself. We
 want to explore as many alternatives as we can to preserve
 federation while 3pc are being phased out. We’ll allow ourselves
 to consider changes beyond that. Maybe think about emphasis that
 the focus on 3pc doesn’t change. Can be more specific about things
 we are considering. Other dimension worth discussing as a group,
 the language here doesn’t seem to leave space for things outside …
 the feature request we hear from Mozilla is that we deal with
 multiple IdPs in the account chooser. That doesn’t fit perfectly
 into a norm that already exists (Unless you also consider how
 SeamlessAccess uses browser local storage). Do we need to be
 explicit that account choosing is part of our scope, even though
 it’s not technically federation?

-   (Tim) if it’s going to be part of FedCM, it has to be part of the
 FedID CG.

-   (Sam) that’s fine with us, but there are things developers have
 asked of us that enhance federation in new ways and are not about
 preserving federation. Need to decide if that’s in scope. Maybe
 this gets discussed in a new working group? Just want to make sure
 the discussion is held somewhere.

-   (Tim) we need more discussion about FedCM. We need a better process
 about what goes in the spec, making sure that’s all talked about.
 Any change we make, or if we form a working group now, might have
 us lose organizations that have to have extensive legal review on
 the charter before joining.

-   (Sam) sounds like keeping the minimalistic changes to the charter
 seem appropriate

-   (Vittorio) I’m ok with this. No changes required from the PR.

-   (Heather) next big thing is the statement that we’re going to help
 form a working group

-   (Vittorio) if that’s what the group wants, that’s great, but it
 might limit participation

-   (Heather) not saying that the WG would replace the CG; we just need
 a WG because we cannot standardize where we are. The CG would
 remain the incubator

-   (Vittorio) Why not use an existing WG like webappsec?

-   (Heather) Because Webappsec doesn’t see our work as security

-   (Tim) Agreed; they work at a lower level in the stack. We should not
 form a WG for just a single API.

-   (Sam) One fo the challenges with Login Status API is that it is
 outside federation. I do have a separation of concerns when it
 comes to Webauthn and federation. Something along the lines of
 identity that’s broader than authentication might allow us to
 bundle Login Status API, FedCM, other work.

-   (Tim) There are credentials and there is authentication; they are
 two very different things. We are probably going to charter
 another WG for wallet invocation which would cover mDL and VCs,
 but our stuff doesn’t belong in there either.

-   (Sam) We work with the autocomplete team and the folks doing mDL; we
 don’t work closely with Webauthn. We need to get the right people
 in the room so we can figure out what kind of scope we need

-   (Tim) We could call it the identity and federated state WG.

-   (Vittorio) The relationship with other standards bodies also starts
 getting tricky here. It seems that the conflict of competence
 might become more clear.

-   (Tim) That would be a really good IIW session - where FedCM is
 going, what OIDC does today, what goes away when FedCM is in
 place.

-   (Sam) FedCM has no business being a replacement for SAML or OIDC; it
 is a

> replacement for 3pc. At some point, would be great to have one of the
> OIDC specs would have language that says “here are the transports
> mechanisms you can use OIDC over (top-level redirects, cookies, or
> FedCM)” . Like, the OIDC profile for FedCM.

-   (Vittorio) this makes me have nightmares.

-   (Tim) we need to get ahead of misinformation.

-   (Vittorio) agree this would be good to discuss at IIW, but worried
 the right people won’t be in the room. They won’t have the
 necessary context. This would be an ideal conversation at the
 OAuth Security Workshop, because it has a higher density of
 experts. It’s not a matter of information flow, it’s an exercise
 of red-lining and actually working through the problem.

-   (Sam) I am interested in doing this because I want to be clear that
 we are not intended to be a competitor to the authentication
 protocols. It would be helpful to have a document that describes
 this so more people understand how FedCM fits.

-   (Vittorio) if we have a table of all the usual use cases, and we
 know that some work almost entirely on the server side, there
 would be very little for FedCM. But for other flows, it would be
 front channel and where/how FedCM could be involved.

-   (Tim) The original explainer that talked about browsers minting
 tokens might be part of why some people are still confused. Is
 that still at all in the realm of possibility?

-   (Sam) For full transparency, that’s not implemented now nor planned
 soon, but it is is something desirable for specific applications.
 Worth being transparent that there are problems with the current
 status quo of having the IdP tied into to all these things so that
 it can track the user.

Creating and using an enterprise profile (Slack thread)

-   (Sam) we looked at this a few years ago, and one variation optimized
 for backwards compatibility for RPs and IdPs. When you have
 managed devices, then you can use enterprise policies to maintain
 status quo. But when we quickly ran into BYOD. One idea was to
 expose a javascript API that would expose a BYOD that would spin
 up an enterprise profile. That has different properties that might
 help some use cases, though the browser privacy people may push
 back hard. Should we still explore this? It won’t come for free -
 there will be a fight with browser vendors.

-   (Tim) We already have so many of these proprietary things in Edge
 that we’re interest. There are always trade-offs, but it’s still
 worth having as an option. There are platform hooks that would
 strongly benefit.

-   (Vittorio) We need something like this for the most extreme
 workplace applications. We need some mechanism like we have today
 of multiple profiles. Am concerned about looking at this as a
 solution for the other constraints. I don’t think we’d be able to
 add constraints we’ve abandoned and say “if you don’t want to be
 affected, you have to use these profiles.” This could put a lot of
 calories in BYOD and leave us entitled to break other things.

-   (Tim) Those companies that have billions of dollars of streaming
 rights need to get more involved in the conversation.

-   (Sam) What about research and education?

-   (Heather) Maybe? That’s such a wild west of devices.

-   (Tim) But that’s what makes this a powerful value proposition

-   (Sam) The biggest push back will be when large consumer-focused
 companies use this kind of profile API to create a “good” use
 experience but poor privacy preservation

-   (Vittorio) We can try to create a UX that would emphasize the
 work/enterprise nature

-   (Tim) we’re trying to optimize so the user doesn’t have to go
 through extra steps. The user can always click “no” but they’ll
 eventually get tired of it.

-   (Heather) Sounds like we have enough here to say that there is
 interest. Sam and Tim should take this back to their orgs and
 gauge further interest.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta \| Auth0)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Sam Goto (Google)
