# FedID CG Telecon, 18 April 2022 (Atlantic)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron Boozarjomehri

Call-in details: see
https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/cceb9fe7-9d35-4041-a31f-d47b7757d64b/20220321T080000

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Cameron

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   25 April 2022 - call cancelled

-   [<u>IIW Topics</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TUKO2phreNUlrbgfoGMnxht3kB3_CSy6DbH2eGkyr1U/edit)

-   [<u>Primitives by Use Case</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Primitives-by-Use-Case)

-   [<u>Blog pos</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v3B8n4cqxVF465eWKZGkQ9RC_qaeIdtrb0h7ZH0LZuQ/edit)t and [<u>Draft Report</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit)

-   FedCM Update

-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   IIW

    -   Heather: Tickets sold out, make sure to update doc with
  potential IIW Topics:
  [<u>https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TUKO2phreNUlrbgfoGMnxht3kB3\_CSy6DbH2eGkyr1U/edit</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TUKO2phreNUlrbgfoGMnxht3kB3_CSy6DbH2eGkyr1U/edit)

    -   Vittorio: suggested “What is FedId” Session to share our mission
  and potentially recruit new members

    -   Sam Goto: Looking to invite local staff working in browsers to
  get a sense of the FedID work, especially for preservation of
  federation. Ideas for Browser storage and maintaining tokens
  or custom identity providers. Expand on relationship between
  FedCM, OTP, wallet use cases, cookie depreciation, and how
  they piece together in an ecosystem

    -   George Fletcher: Expressing reservations around how FedCM works
  alongside existing protocols, or made obsolete by FedCM work?
  (Existing protocols are flawed and may need to be replaced)

    -   Sam Goto: Chrome intends to get FedCM API in to chrome before
  EOY so that 3d party cookies can be deprecated by end of 2023.
  Q3 22 - Q3 23 is phase out period one, followed by second
  phase out period in Q4 so no 3rd party cookies by start
  of 2024. FedCM to coexist with SAML and OpenID Connect.
  Questions about Bounce tracking, pop-ups, CNAMEs.

    -   George Fletcher: How do we preserve privacy of the web but also
  preserve existing mechanisms, Standards for what behaviors are
  clearly for auth as opposed to just another redirect or link
  decoration.

    -   Ben Vandersloot: From a Mozilla perspective, we are trying to
  enable legacy components for the long term while trying to
  ensure an escape hatch for the future. Storage access api for
  how we limit data context, When user interaction should lead
  to key browser behaviors.

    -   Cameron: Can I get some explanations on the Bounce Tracking as
  it relates to Google’s future (2023/2024) FedID work.

    -   Sam Goto: (To George) Echoing what Ben said, how legacy
  components of the web stem from heuristics and allow lists,
  but we have a problem of trackers exploiting these previous
  designs. Need to create new technologies with “escape hatches”
  that can help us mitigate the proliferation of these trackers.
  Hope is FedCM will stand on its own, but will also give more
  space for limited user interaction to help ensure tracking is
  as desired by the user.

    -   Vittorio: concerns about how FedCM is positioned. Chrome has the
  right to act autonomously, but this behavior appears to make
  FedCM appear as the obvious solution to all privacy issues on
  the Web. There were many discussions of a wide breadth of use
  cases, but eventually we decided to bring it down to 3rd Party
  cookies. However now the scope is too narrow, but still being
  used to pitch a solution to a number of other scenarios that
  have not been discussed or prioritized. It is an entry point
  to Federated Identity, but it is not an end all solution and
  prioritizing it will make it harder to leverage escape
  hatches.

    -   Kristen Chapman: When discussing Privacy CG, they aren’t
  creating proposals for Privacy changes they are already
  implementing, where as we are trying to come together to make
  a more holistic solution that addresses existing login cases
  before worrying about Privacy.

    -   John Bradley: While it may be reasonable to introduce new APIs,
  the rest of the world won’t be that fast to adapt (especially
  to parts of the world with more obvious immediate pressing
  matters). It would be better to move slower so as to not
  undermine critical existing internet infrastructure. In the
  Medium term we need some way to lure identity providers to
  create user interfaces to better help the browser understand
  what identity a user wants to use. Could be through an
  existing SSO or some type of wallet. Maybe in the future we
  can expand or extend a new API but it depends on a phased
  approach

    -   Sam Goto: Agrees with John, FedCM is also an API on top of
  credential manager. Point of clarification, Chrome is
  prioritizing 3rd party cookies in how it sells its adoption of
  FedCM and not as a clear mitigation to bounce tracking. FedCM
  should not be sold as a cure all because it is not.

-   Escape Hatches: a way to create an exception to the default policy
    > (allows you to circumvent an exception). Storage access API is a
    > concrete example of this for circumventing 3rd Party Cookies

-   Primitives by Use Case

    -   Heather: PrivacyCG will find FedCM report useful for how they
  prioritize what needs to be protected and what is lower
  priority.

-   Draft Report

    -   FedCM draft Report:
  [<u>https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7\_d\_X8h1\_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf\_s70ycYj20/edit\#</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit#)

    -   Heather: What were the parent use cases considered, and where
  were aspects of each case discussed in the repo? Is this
  format and information adequate or would a different structure
  be better?

    -   Vittorio: trying to understand the audience for this doc. Maybe
  sequence diagrams are too much in these high level docs, and
  for each use case there should still be evaluation of the same
  diagram with notes describing discrepancies between each case.

    -   Heather: Once we start looking into specific federation threats,
  they are misrepresenting that they are not immediate threats
  but 1 degree removed.

    -   Kristen Chapman: how to align privacy threat models and user
  threat models.

    -   Heather: suggest that we (the working group) acknowledge
  implicit privacy threats when using Federated ID, they look
  this specific way, and we need agreement between them

    -   Kristen: There are privacy threats, and user threats, and we
  need to emphasize what mapping or overlap between these
  threats we are prioritizing

    -   Heather: Framing how tracking affects the users privacy and by
  extension their identity could be useful

    -   Kstien: has some additional user flows

    -   Heather: wants to keep this in an initial review state till they
  get feedback

    -   Cameron: we can publish a rougher draft as long as it is clear
  tha privacy is not out the window and we are still
  prioritizing it even if we aren’t describing each specific
  case.

-   Blog Post

    -   Heather: Get blogpost and draft report out by IIW

    -   Blog post:
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v3B8n4cqxVF465eWKZGkQ9RC\_qaeIdtrb0h7ZH0LZuQ/edit\#heading=h.ft65jrws7m7t

-   Misc

    -   Sam: wants a discussion with Paul (maybe in a smaller group) to
  focus on how FedCM and other privacy components could work
  moving forward

    -   Ben: eager to discuss design and privacy attacks. Who do we
  consider threats to user privacy, and how to have these auth
  flows function

 

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0\|OKTA)

-   Michael Knowles (Google / Chrome)

-   Sam Goto (Google / Chrome)

-   John Bradley (Yubico)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)
