# FedID CG call notes (Atlantic) - 5 December 2022
-   Moderator: Tim Cappalli, Kris Chapman

-   Scribe: Cameron Bozarjomehri

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   Mozilla prototype of FedCM

-   AOB

    -   Dec 12 call: using third-party cookies in browser local storage
 for authentication/identity settings (focus on CHAPI, though
 the SeamlessAccess use case is much the same) -
 [feeding/FedCM\#374](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/374)

Notes
=====

-   Mozilla FedCM Demo

    -   Benjamin Vandersloot: Not too much to demo at this point but a
 convenient chance that we are landing something on the path to
 what we want. The current Demo is in Nightly:

        -   About:config

        -   Dom.security.credentialmanagement.identity = true

        -   Test on https://wiggly-towering-breath.glitch.me

    -   Benjamin Vandersloot: On Fork of GLitch me can choose credential
 management provider from UI. \[Live Demo things happened\] The
 code is rebuilding.

    -   Tim Cappalli: I got an “operation failed for unknown transient
 reason”.

    -   Ben Vandersloot: I got the same error. If it WERE working, you’d
 get the page, get to choose a provider, and then get a Terms
 Of Service landing page provider. I can share some WIP mocks
 we have. The workflow we are imagining would be, if you pick a
 provider but aren’t logged in we would give you a pop-up to
 login. Also support a tab open for login (but something we
 want to spec in as an option for Identity provider so they can
 decide how the dialogue appears). Another thing we are looking
 for as a Mock is in the single identity provider case, the
 door hangar is for login for a Single IDP across all RPs. On
 login you’d get a single account with single account info and
 can login there. Once logged in it will give confirmation.

    -   Christian Biesinger: the Privacy policy, the dialogue you get
 when you log in to the IDP requires you to just accept the
 Privacy Policy prior to login. Seems redundant.

    -   Ben: Terms of Service are triple keyed on IDP, RP, User account.
 This is a moc in which case it could be single keyed on the
 IDP.

    -   Christian: this would be using an idp as the idp

    -   Ben: if this is a use case we can’t support then here’s a use
 case of pop-up after multi account choice.

    -   Christian: I agree with Nicholas that this looks really good

    -   Ben: What I want to emphasize is that we have a gating on
 accepting the specific ID provider here with pre-registration
 function and made into body of spec. And if you aren’t already
 logged into the ID provider say in a case where retrieving
 account shows empty list then we can do a pop-up or tab open

    -   Nicolas: is this keyed on RP or IDP or will it be an “Accept All
 and support on all sites

    -   Ben: I believe in this Google example this would be approve once
 across all sites. At this point of ID selection it would
 resolve that the user consented for that site.

    -   Yi: UI question, I knw this is a moc, the confusion is on
 location, I see it’s in the center under the key icon is that
 what we would see in the browser?

    -   Ben: yes this is where things usually appear in our browser so
 that’s just our default question

    -   Yi: I also noticed you are using domain in demo but on the mocks
 you use “Google” or example without domain

    -   Ben: copy isn’t final, we would include some origin indicator of
 IDP and then know you are in context of example.com

    -   Yi: so would you also include the origin

    -   Ben: yes we would include the origin name as the “IDP” so in
 Google’s case it would say “Use Google? Google.com”. Think
 it’s also good to use origin into to prevent attack

    -   Sam: Really wanna say +1 to everything. Some things: 1)
 Wonderful, 2) Can you share the link to this doc so we can
 comment it

    -   Ben: I will try to get it into a sharable state

    -   Sam: you mentioned you needed to fork glitch.me, what is that
 and is there anything chrome should know

    -   Ben: that boils down to the fetch changes for CORS

    -   Sam: I think from a design perspective we reached some
 convergence

    -   Ben: I agree, I have the open PR on fetch, making some slow
 progress.

    -   Sam: anything else you thought was awkward?

    -   Ben: ther are UX cases we haven’t gotten to yet such as erroring
 out non-silently is something that isn’t really there in
 chrome

    -   Sam: we have struggled with that due to privacy concerns. Can
 you expand on the “If not pre-registered” Page

    -   Ben: this is if you haven’t pre-registered or want to select a
 pre-registered user. Then you get to Single Account page and
 choose account to confirm.

    -   Sam: would this happen to every user?

    -   Ben: I would expect this to happen Once, Per IDP, Per User
 profile in browser because it’s stored in the IDentity
 Credential State map. Every user would see this once per IDP.

    -   Sam: there was one example of a list of IDPs, by the time you
 get the list is this static or is this from http requests?

    -   Ben: this is static, we are trying to do an example of 1 IDP in
 an RP coordinated way with some origin provider or icon, etc

    -   Sam: if the user acknowledges the timing attack prompt would you
 still construct the list?

    -   Ben: not in the single IDP use case. If you clicked a “login
 with google button” and already down the prompt then go
 straight to here.

    -   Sam: and in multiple IDP have list?

    -   Ben: Yes list, but dependent on Identity flag set

    -   Sam: I love how the mock suggests the BYO-Idp

    -   Ben: I’ll reiterate this is at an early stage

    -   Geroge Fletcher: often you get into scenario where you’re logged
 into the wrong IDP (not the one you want for that site).
 Somewhere on the “continue”. I haven’t logged into my yahoo
 account I need a way to choose a different IDP and go back to
 the static list so next time I can choose what I want.

    -   Ben: so you are asking for a back button on the IDP prompt

    -   George: yeah a back button or something that allows for
 different choices in identity flows.

    -   Ben: I agree that’s something we hope to get in in the next
 month or 2

    -   Brian Daugherty: Similarly we would like a multiple accounts
 selector

    -   Ben: yes (scrolls to “multiple accounts” with as much IDPs as
 possible. Manual entry fields push to interesting direction.

    -   Yi: number of door hangars on single vs multiple

    -   Ben: for single then just 1, for multi then worse case scenario
 3 choices: multiple IDP Choice/ Account Choice/ Policy in
 terms of service.

    -   Yi: so from IDP registration UI, if I say yes, I won't see that
 UI for that IDP in that browser. If I say no will I see that
 UI in the next RP? If I am an IDP and click this I get new UI
 on next RP?

    -   Ben: yes

    -   Sam: On the live demo with the static list, this is shown
 because not pre-registered yet, right?

    -   Ben: yep

    -   Sam: if I click on the thing is that registration?

    -   Ben:yep

    -   Sam: so if user goes to RP and see static prompt would get IDP
 option.

    -   Ben: in a single I think that makes sense

    -   Sam: from here if logged in would fetch accounts and show user?

    -   Ben: yep, we are still working on policy questions on how much
 “friction” is appropriate because of degree of sharing

    -   Sam: the context of the prompt matters more. If you have more
 prompts at the RP I think it’s okay, for the prompt to show at
 the IDP, not all google users sign in with Google.

    -   Ben: Some IDPs in academic setting can be hard to handle in
 those settings

    -   Sam: very excited at the IDP level, I think both those things
 should exist then we can address timing attack problem

    -   Nicolas: 1) in the current mocks looks like UI always shows (can
 we get feedback from IDPs like google ID services, not sure if
 logged in or not) 2) Can you keep us on the loop for when it’s
 ready for sharing so Google team can try out Mozilla
 implementation and get faster iteration and such.

    -   Ben: sure

    -   Nicolas: I wanted to check when dialogues appear in mock

    -   Ben: won’t always show, still a rough demo

    -   Yi: on this UI only with smart register. If I sign out and then
 go to a different RP, since I am already pre-registered and I
 go to another RP, I would keep getting prompted till I get
 into google?

    -   Ben: good point, and our pop-up blocker might stop it due to
 user interaction

    -   Yi: yes because we show some UI when sharing accounts. This case
 you already escaped even though you registered.

    -   Ben: part of the expectation is consenting IDP is compromising
 to timing attack

    -   Christian: can you share these mocks with us

    -   Ben: sure once they are a little more finalized.

    -   Sam: Do you distinguish between registration and sign in status
 api. Login vs registration bit

    -   Ben: I do not distinguish. I see sign in status as
 pre-registration

    -   Sam: on the registration prompt, is this prompt from the IDP
 invoking the prompt. Can this be called in a different
 context?

    -   Ben: yes, can be called by 10.2.2.5 of sign in status api and
 this as part of navigator.credential.get and as part of sign
 in credential status hit this code path.

    -   Achim Schlosser: So this would be triggered when IDp hits sign
 in status or when the user is a t a relying party site and not
 registered

    -   Ben: correct, i could do it in this context, the subview idea
 here, let that get a permission prompt as identity provider
 here.

    -   Achim: from an RP side, no IDP call, expecting terms of
 conditions without sharing IDP, may be better in larger stage.

    -   Ben: and yes, you can imagine language could be entirely
 changed. Planning to file an issue and start a broader
 conversation. Doo hangar could be pushed to different context

    -   George: first door hangar is user giving consent for google to
 use IDP for consent of that browser. Google is asking it and
 giving consent. Try to prevent user direct to a phishing
 address, should we do browser consent to prompt on unknwon IDP

    -   Ben: in that case language around registration should emphasize
 privacy policy on login page. This is the fun part, there’s
 potential to make this work without implementing server side
 API.

    -   George: No need for backchannel API or other things to pass back
 tokens. USer wants to login with google

    -   Achim: was touched on in some issues as being wrapped in a
 protected frame

    -   Ben: we could, most extreme version would be a door hangar to
 give storage access API prompt. That interaction is less
 clear, somefunction or request to get a “login successful,
 here’s a bearer token” situation. This is why I prefer pop
 over or New tab to keep discussion in browser rather than need
 a new API.

    -   Achim: so keep rp side api and allow different variant, do it in
 that frame and everything else run different than IDP side of
 FedCM

    -   Ben: so in the window sign in status api gets called, create
 variant of API, prompt user that I am giving token, her’s
 their info, if you wanna prompt that way. Or maybe google
 wants to log you in on example.com and do login flow so then
 you can prompt and confirm what state is logged in here.
 Bridging gap is my focus.

    -   Ben: this has been super helpful for us to hammer down and get
 clearity on IDPs and Google alike. Lots of new ideas all
 sounding good.

-   Kris: next week item 374 for cookies for wallets etc focus on CHAPI. Let us know about other stuff bye



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, co-chair)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   George Fletcher (Capital one)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping Identity)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI International)

-   Richard Northover (Freelance)

-   David Hübner (DAASI International)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)
