
# FedID CG Notes - 7 November 2022 (Atlantic)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron/Tim

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Cameron for 1st half/Tim for second half

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   FedCM topics (if attendance supports discussion)

    -   [<u>Issue 320: Why Sec-FedCM-CSRF and not Sec-Fetch-Mode</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/320) - Christian

    -   [<u>Issue 319: Allow multiple IdPs to be used</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/319)

    -   [<u>Issue 352: Share performance measurement with IDP</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/352)

    -   [<u>Issue 317: concerns about email in Accounts List</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/317)

-   AOB

    -   IIW topic suggestions?

Notes
=====

-   CORS

    -   \[Christian\] For Cors, will introduce a new behavior. Behavior
 most likely to affect FEDCM is changing referrer header to
  origin header for the requested IDP.

-   Multiple IDP Issue

    -   \[Sam\] implementing prototypes from multiple IDPs. Need help
  from folks more familiar with .edu space. Considerations for
  consumers are different from those of EDU. Not useful in a
  large group but if anyone is interested in helping on a deep
  dive long call that would be good too.

    -   \[Heather\] Time mentioned edu would be good discussion idea for
  IIW. Happy to coordinate a call with Chris Philips who wrote
  code for seamless access. Can setup something with them.

    -   \[Nicolas\] Mostly discussion in the issue, no additional
  discussion. Main point of disagreement about how explicit the
  API needs to be when showing FedCM UI on page load. How to
  enable RPs to enable preference for IDP ordering. Ben proposed
  using Get calls.

    -   \[Ben Vandersloot\] The question is how to get the API
  ergonomics together for multiple IDPS checkout issue 319,
  thoughts welcome

    -   \[Heather\] Not clear on how optional what FedCM comes up with
  will be. Because of edu use case there were too many IDPs, how
  stuck would they be?

    -   \[Sam\] Very different topology for edu but doesn’t negate
  constraints with consumers. Don’t know enough about edu to
  say. Likely 80% of api will be needed for edu. Like signing
  into IDP. Lots of that work will be reused.

    -   \[Nicolas\] My understanding is the main thing that could break
  when not having 3rd party cookies is a user returns and signs
  in in channel 1 with IDP, but want to use same edu credential
  in channel 2. No 3rd party cookies mean no reused credentials.
  These meta idps to show previously used affiliation, solved
  with multiple IDP + user signed in status API.

    -   \[Kris\] Started to look at this from decision tree aspect. From
  [<u>Stanford</u>](https://uit.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/images/2017/01/05/20160825SU_FEDtoday.png):
  [<u>https://uit.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/images/2017/01/05/20160825SU\_FEDtoday.png</u>](https://uit.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/images/2017/01/05/20160825SU_FEDtoday.png)
  this is their use of IDPs. Not just which IDP is used but
  which mechanism is used. May be using sma IDP in 2 different
  groups. Is all that selection aspect happening before getting
  into FedCM or will that be built in to the picker as well?
  Maybe a grouping of IDPs?

    -   \[Nicolas\] I don’t understand the image enough to answer

    -   \[Kris\] the diagram is how stanford looks at their network. The
  diagram says these are X IDPs in common for a specific group.
  Some overlap, some don’t, the idea is that this is the
  grouping of the IDP as well.

    -   \[Ben VS\] Should be able to preserve that as a step before
  FedCM. Proposal I have for multiple IDP has that as an option.

    -   \[Achim\] would be hard to build all that in a pre-built browser
  UI. If you want to offer specific user a federated login, can
  do that because even a lot of related IDPs can become
  redundant. This is important for the education space where
  IDPs can offer their own UI. None of that sits on 1 domain,
  would result in a ton of redirects which we can’t just
  rebuild.

    -   \[Sam\] I am in the asking why/whether rather than how/what.
  What might help is assume google doesn’t know this, my
  suggestion is Kris talk on same party federation was useful
  because it provided concrete examples of sales force products
  to show how 3rd party cookies impact those products. Maybe
  collect and share concrete examples for what a stanford
  student would go through for 3rd party cookies to understand
  these examples.

    -   \[Heather\] just wanted to add that the groupings in the diagram
  would make no sense to end users because users don’t know that
  name of the entity credentialing them and they don’t care.

    -   \[Kris\] that makes sense, I agree with Achim that this would be
  impossible to map. Only thing is from a Faculty/Researcher
  standpoint, when they are logging in these different IDPs
  become more relevant based on the context of what they are
  logging in to do? Is this research, academia, etc. Each can be
  limited on access. I can see students not caring about the
  grouping, but still might be useful for others to know when it
  works when it doesn’t. Depending on IDP could work in
  different use cases to see feedback mechanism.

-   Issue 352: [<u>Share performance with
    > IDP</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/352)

    -   \[Yi Gu\] with FedCM flow they lose the login flow. IDP
  blindness means they don’t need to learn about RP. With both
  RP and IDP they will lose something because they don’t know
  the API performance/timeout. We share reasonable with IDP,
  share metrics useful for devs with the devs. For pref reasons
  there are certain things IDP/RP shouldn’t learn about to
  expose this info including in console log. We rather write
  data straight to IDP endpoint. If flow is successful IDP is
  allowed to learn how long calls take and how long they
  interact, permissions, etc. There are 3 reasons, 1)
  implementation wrong, 2) If RP failure/aborts req some RP
  known issues, 3) user specific failure like they closed ui to
  dismiss, shouldn’t share with non-user parties. Share this to
  get a dashboard to capture regression so on. There are
  reporting API for CSP violations that can be reported to
  server. Record and report to server. Helps API to improve as
  well and help 3rd party IDP/RP to perform.

    -   \[Tim\] Is this actionable though? There’s nothing the IDP can
  do to change this, it’s not an API they control? They can’t
  change if the user takes too long to do something? What would
  they do with this data?

    -   \[Yi\] If it’s slow on all RPs then that might not be useful,
  but can identify when1 rp is acting up

    -   \[Sam\] latency could be useful to know/resolve issues

    -   \[Ben VS\] I’d need to spend more time with it on what the
  reasonable info is. I know we are positive with a reporting
  api that could be a good sign. But need more data.

    -   \[Yi\] I’d be happy to share

-   Issue 317: [<u>Emails in the account
    > list</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/317)

    -   \[Sam\] coming up more often than not; bubbling up in issues.

        -   Consent that FedCM asks is too rigid, need to handle it
      better in the API, specifically adding or removing
      identity attributes

        -   Today, if you don’t pass an email, fails

        -   Need to provide a way for RP to express what identity
      attributes they need (or don’t need) and how to display to
      users

        -   Not just emails, phone numbers are another big one

    -   \[Achim\]

        -   2 aspects: how does the user recognize the account
      (typically email address) vs what is shared as an identity
      attribute (selectable vs deselectable)

        -   Some IdPs support different claims, can be quite extensive

        -   General scoping: scopes with resource servers

    -   \[Heather\]

        -   [<u>NISO\_RP-27-2019\_RA21\_Identity\_Discovery\_and\_Persistence.pdf</u>](https://groups.niso.org/higherlogic/ws/public/download/21892/NISO_RP-27-2019_RA21_Identity_Discovery_and_Persistence.pdf)

        -   Talks about best practices for discovery services, fed into
      Seamless Access

        -   Talks about use of email addresses. People always know their
      email address, but not necessarily their provider.

    -   \[Tim\]

        -   passkeys may eliminate the need for usernames moving forward

    -   \[Ben\]

        -   Optionality is important (pseudonym vs communication
      channel)

    -   \[Sam\]

        -   Delegate to ecosystem, not decided by browser vendors. We
      should be unopinionated about these tradeoffs

    -   \[Achim\]

        -   Account name vs data requested

    -   \[Sam\]

        -   Would be great to have access to OpenID Connect experts

    -   \[Tim\]

        -   OIDF workshop:
      [<u>https://openid.net/2022/10/24/workshop-at-visa-monday-november-14-2022/</u>](https://openid.net/2022/10/24/workshop-at-visa-monday-november-14-2022/)

    -   \[Sam\]

        -   Requesting claims section of Connect

    -   \[Vittorio\]

        -   Reminder: a lot of this stuff may not be visible to the
      browser (code flow, for example)

        -   Caution: claims parameter - in the spec, but very people
      implement it. Extraordinary generic. Need to find out of
      band. Ex: asking for a specific authentication service,
      only for that vendor.

        -   Claims as a parameter failed in the market because very few
      support it and the ones who do, are using it specific to
      their application

    -   \[Achim\]

        -   Agree, many scenarios where claims parameter is not
      supported at all

    -   \[Tim\]

        -   IIW session on Connect vs FedCM breakdown

    -   \[Heather\]

        -   IIW topics

            -   Dive into federation in EDU

            -   FedCM 101

            -   OIDC and FedCM breakdown / relationships

            -   Federation vs passkeys

            -   Age Verification on the Web

            -   OIDC and mDLs and VCs

        -   Goals in EDU community - think forward about SAML
      federations in a world of passkeys and wallets. Topic in
      Denver at Internet2 event.

    -   \[Sam\]

        -   mDL being brought up by Safari. What is the relationship?
      Age verification is coming up as well.

    -   \[Heather\]

        -   Working with Kantara - [<u>Privacy Enhanced Mobile
      Credentials</u>](https://kantara.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PEMCP/overview)
      working group is doing quite a bit with mDLs and other
      credentials, and often uses age verification as a working
      example

    -   \[Tim\]

        -   IIW session on browser wallet API and cross-device
      invocation via new FIDO Alliance initiative

\[Heather\] many will be at IIW next week, so will throw out to Slack/ML
on whether to have call.

 

Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (okta)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   David Huebner (DAASI International)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)
