#FedID CG call (Atlantic), 28 November 2022

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Michael Knowles

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   FedCM and IIW

    -   [<u>Issue 319: Allow multiple IdPs to be
used</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/319)

    -   [<u>Issue 240: Revisiting the Interaction Model between Relying
 Party, End User and
 IDP</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/240#issuecomment-1084075654)
 aka, bring your own IdP

    -   [<u>Issue 377: IdP requires knowlege of RP to allow a
 session</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/377)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   IIW summary (issues above)

-   Issue 319 - Allowing multiple IDPs

    -   Heather: Where are things atm?

    -   Nicolas: Don’t yet have a super-concrete path forward

        -   Discussed with Google Identity Services, re: two separate
     API calls for user interactions vs without (Delayed vs.
     non-delayed)

        -   Feedback was: not sure when RP will have user-interaction
     and so would probably always use non-delayed version

        -   Can degrade gracefully from non-delayed to delayed version

        -   So, because IDPs may not know whether there is User
     Activation, might not be such a good idea after all

        -   Having said that, an IDP is able to check for User
     Activation via JS APIs

        -   But still, not sure if there is any value to IDP having a
     separation of User-Interaction version vs. non
     User-Interaction version.

        -   So, wondering if the API should still have that separation
     or not anymore

    -   Q: Is the delayed case not noticed by user?

        -   Nicolas: Both cases will show dialog – difference is dialog
     shown right away vs. a bit later

        -   Reason for a bit later might be taht it is during initial
     page load and might want to show multiple IDPs that are on
     the page and it is hard for all IDPs to coordinate on
     page-load, so maybe wait a bit before showing to

    -   Q: I sphere a case where dialog is show?

    -   Nicolas: Yes, if you don’t have any accounts with the IDP (or
 any IDPs) then no dialog is shown.

        -   Might be changed with IDP Signin Status API, because the
     browser might already know about IDPs accounts

    -   Q: No account vs. No Active Session?

    -   Nicolas: No active session

    -   Tim: Case for IDP is where you’ve embedded an IDP SDK?

    -   Nicolas: Yes

    -   Tim: Is there a better way for IDPs to signal this to the
 browser?

        -   Should an embedded SDK be calling FedCM on their own?

        -   We’ve just been assuming that

    -   Nicolas: Good point, but the reason for where it si right now,
 is that FedCM can be invoked by IDP without requiring RP
 changes

        -   If RP has embedded IDP SDK, then for basic use-case no RP
     changes are required

        -   But in the alternate, it would require the RP to make code
     changes to specifically call FedCM

        -   2nd issue is IDP collaboration - an IDP that does not want
     to collaborate could just call FedCM themselves (to show
     dialog immediately, excluding other IDPs), when it is
     really t4he RP’s choice on which IDPs to show

    -   Tim: But won’t that problem always exist?

    -   Nicolas: Yes, so that is why we have the delayed option – the
 browser can enforce the delay to allow other IDPs to register
 themselves

    -   Tim: Is that an operating mode? Who decides which mode to run
 in?

    -   Nicolas: Two modes: delayed mode vs. user interaction mode (only
 work if user clicked on something – eg., show FedCM on
 user-click)

        -   Which is why IDPs want to go for the fastest mode and then
     fall back to delayed mode

    -   Tim: Who is enforcing which mode is being used?

    -   Nicolas: Browser has delayed mode by default and user-click
 would be alternate

    -   Tim: Shouldn’t the RP that is hosting be the entity to enforce
 it? OTherwise everyone is going to just do whatever they want
 to benefit them

    -   Nicolas: Yes, so having an alternate get() form

    -   Ben: Do we want to consider IDPs hostile to each other?

    -   Tim: Yes – every IDP wants to prefer themselves

    -   Ben: I mean actually hostile hostile (removing / preventing
 other IDPs from being shown)

    -   Heather: Yes, esp. In Edu market, some publishers would want to
 prevent

    -   Ben: What we really want is a way for IDPs to register
 themselves and then a subsequent call to
 navigator.credentials.get() would consider all IDPs

    -   Ben: Wondering if CSP would solve the problem

    -   Ben: Idea is identity.credentials.register() call - if CSP can
 actually control it

    -   The reason we wanted to do both as .get() calls (delayed and
 non-delayed) was so that the entity that is doing .get() would
 get the credential back if theirs was the account that was
 selected.

    -   Heather: Academic IDPs hold the list of registered IDPs as an
 intermediary

        -   Could the browser call an API to know which IDPs are
     legitimate for a given user and/or RP?

        -   But then the Browser would have to outsource some of that
     (list management)

    -   Christian: Not sure if I understood completely – if you’re
 allowing IDPs that are not specifically asked by the RP, then
 that would be different because they would then have to start
 trusting RPs

    -   Heather: THat’s why RPs join these federations so they don’t
 have to individually trust every single IDP in the big list

    -   Sam: Very interesting observation. For existing use-cases
 (Consumer) we don’t have that level of indirection, whereas in
 Edu there IS that indirection via InCommon or SeamlessAccess

        -   Wouldn’t give up on the idea of the browser giving up on
     knowing about the entire list of 1000s of IDPs

        -   If the Browser was a CA, then it could be a small payload
     vs. a huge list

        -   Or other similar mechanisms to get around needing to manage
     huge lists

        -   Private Set Membership and similar things

    -   Nicolas: Registration vs. Dialog Showing: Assuming RP just
 embeds IDP SDKs, IUDP can do anything, if we had registration
 separated from showing the dialog. In that case IDPs would
 call registration and then immediately call to show the dialog
 which would then re-introduce the need to delay the showing to
 allow all IDPs to register before actually showing the dialog.

    -   Ben: The right answer to control it properly would be permission
 controlled

        -   Instead of having it be a JS embed it should

        -   Trying to talk about mutual hostility without a frame
     between them is difficult

        -   Also, we’re degrading the agency of the RP by trying to
     build it without RP control, as the RP ultimately has the
     crucial responsibility / ability to do this type of
     arbitration among IDPs

-   Bring Your Own IDP

    -   Heather: We’ll be talking about CHAPI more on the next (Dec
 4thg) call

    -   Heather: In the meantime, anything else, Sam that we should
 focus on?

    -   Sam: Typical order of questions: why / what / who / when, in
 that order

        -   Still trying to figure out the “why” for BYOIDP

        -   From Browser Vendor perspective seems like we (Mozilla,
     Chrome) we’d be support because it would increase user
     choice / decrease user friction / would allow smaller IDPs
     a space that they would otherwise not have

        -   But want to know why an IDPs would want an IDP that has not
     been pre-registered

        -   But still have an intuition that the incentives are
     well-aligned for RPs

        -   But generally is there enough demand and will the supply
     connect to the demand?

        -   Then: How to find an RP that would take IDPs that the user
     chooses to to learn how to protopye

        -   But the first question is: Is this a feature that is worth
     prototyping?

        -   If it does hold, then understand the “hows”?

        -   Is there a precedent on this from SAML or OpenID?

        -   When we read OpenID it seems pretty rigid

        -   RPs have to register with IDPs out of band ahead of time

        -   And there is no way for RPs to take any IDPs because of that

        -   Would be good for Tim and Vittorio would work with OpenID
     Connect

    -   TIm: Have to separate out user of 3PC from CHAPI from BYOIDP

        -   Many would not consider CHAPI as a case for BYOIDP

        -   RPs use 5 IDPs consistently because general identity
     operations is reliable and well-defined

        -   Not at all guaranteed to be reliable for BYOIDP

        -   So, “should you” is different from ‘when”

        -   And there are ways in OpenID to allow this - but nobody uses
     it

        -   There are mechanisms to get one verified claim (eg., proof
     of age), but that's not federated sign-in

        -   Starts to seem like we’re overloading BYOIDP

        -   So, all three are very different with partially overlapping
     functionality, but not all suited to all use-cases

    -   Ben: Seems reasonable and should split those up

        -   Mozilla is interested in : If we have this pre-registered
     provider, and if the RP is hypothetically willing to
     accept anyone, thent htat seems reasonable

        -   But not sure how many RPs would be willing to accept that

        -   And that would be def lower priority

    -   Tim: Other reality is that there is 5% of RPs that don’t care
 who issued it, getting it from someone else provides no value,
 why even do this?

        -   Using a known IDP vs. self-sovereign IDPs

    -   Ben: Why would an RP use it? If they just want an ID without
 needing a password use this

    -   Tim: Passkeys should allow this today –

    -   Heather: But that is not Federation and therefore out of scope

    -   Tim: But so is CHAPI (otu of scope / not federation)

    -   Sam: We work closely with passkeys team / Tim is correct that
 there is an intersection with Passkeys and also mDLs (with
 Apple and others), so things are starting to run into each
 other.

        -   From an ordering perspective, want to see evidence of
     demand - when you have a partner you can work with (much
     of this can’t be done without a partner) that provides a
     good signal

        -   For Front Channel Logout, we are starting to see people
     starting to work on this, but not clear for BYOIDP

    -   Heather: Observation: FedCM is in interesting position – have
 business drivers for Google, starting by preserving federation
 beyond 3PCD, but also looking for additional functionality
 that could be added that would make sense

        -   But some of the new functionality is starting to go outside
     scope of FedID CG

-   Issue 377

    -   Heather: threw in with screen shots of IDP that wouldn’t respond
 on anything unless they knew what the RP was

        -   IDP in question is the Academic Federation fro Norway

        -   All Universities funnel up to that IDP offered by the
     Federation

        -   And it won’t respond if the IDP doesn’t know who the RP is

        -   Speaks to who-registers-what (with FedCM) to allow an
     authentication to happen

    -   Tim: This issue is talking about the IIW discussion, right?

    -   Heather: Should go back and find relevant IIW Notes

    -   Kris: +1 this as an issue – definitely need the context of the
 RP from the IDP standpoint

        -   It is not just user account – combination of User and RP
     account – should user be allowed to even log into that RP

        -   User might have access to service on Walmart but not Amazon

        -   So IDP needs context on where the request is coming from in
     order to do this type of determination

    -   Vittorio: Wanted to stress principle expressed at IIW

        -   Signin is a transitive action

        -   Except for the very rare case where the place you want to
     sign-in to is the same as the IDP

        -   VAst majority of sign-ins (to IDPs?) is required to get to
     where I want to go

        -   Knowledge of where user wants to go to allow sign-ins

        -   Eg., country-specific restrictions on might exist

        -   And so they have to set rules on the identity of the RP

        -   Also, mechanical restrictions on IDP needing to know the RP
     in order to know that the RP is “safe” to interact with

    -   Tim: Could imagine word where there is a static endpoint called
 FedCM and you just get a token back that allows you to
 populate the user list

        -   But some of the examples are not representatives

        -   Login.microsoft.com does not have a client id itself

        -   Defaults to thinking that you are going to office, but that
     is effectively artificially injecting a client-id

    -   Ben: Idea of once the user selects user from the “door-hanger”
 at that point, we currently fully break down the door, but we
 send credentialed request after you select an IDP, all bets
 are off (timing attack, etc.), so maybe it actually makes
 sense to include a referer or origin header in that
 credentialed request.

    -   Tim: Would that still allow you to have a customized button?
 THere would be an intermediate step? Eg., Google Personalized
 button

    -   Ben: Click it , and then you might end up on and account chooser
 – there is discussion on privacy vs. usability still

        -   But prototype status - you always go to provider chooser
     before an account chooser.

    -   Tim: But that would not be the equivalent of one-tap because
 there is an IDP chooser first. So that might not??? Meet
 Google Sign In’s needs?

        -   Registration intended to circumvent that initial
     IDP-choosing screen(?)

    -   Brian: IDPs tries to avoid duplicate accounts – gets confused
 with multiple IDPs. Might want to allow returning users to
 reuse existing accounts and avoid creating duplicate accounts.
 Account management and creation is an issue for UX
 considerations

-   Heather: Next week: Mozilla’s FedCM

    -   Heather will also not be here next week – will be at other event (Internet2 TechEx)


Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, co-chair)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Zachary Tan (Google)

-   Kaan Icer (Google Chrome)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)

-   Alex Cone (Coir)

-   Abhinav Lele (Shopify)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, co-chair)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI Int.) came late
