# FedID CG call notes (Atlantic), 12 December 2022
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Nicolás, Dmitri

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   FedCM topics

    -   Internet2 TechEx readout

    -   CHAPI (see <u>[fedidcg/FedCM\#374](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/374))</u>

-   AOB

    -   next call is a Pacific call (19 December 2022). Our next call after that will be an Atlantic call on 9 January 2023.

# [CHAPI slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_h0-OKMpUJnEMAMZLgZl_ic726RSXtfKSgGyf1ksiag/edit)


Notes
=====

-   Heather: I wanted to report on something that happened at Internet
 2, which is a conference on higher education and research. It
 brings together a bunch of federation folks. I had a session on
 Tuesday morning where I talked about what’s happening in the
 browser space. The community engaged such that for the rest of the
 week there were hallway conversations and that community is
 coordinating a hackathon to understand how those big open projects
 can take advantage of FedCM. Seamless Access is very much like
 CHAPI in that they store info to help the user know what
 credentials to use to login. There are about two dozen people who
 will meet at the Canary (?) offices in Canada. So that was
 awesome!

-   Manu: You said that there is overlap with CHAPI. I wonder if you
 have links to presentations so that we can analyze the overlap.

-   Heather: I’ll put those in the scribing doc:

    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/4</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/4)

    -   [<u>https://seamlessaccess.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOCUMENTAT/overview</u>](https://seamlessaccess.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOCUMENTAT/overview)

**CHAPI**

-   Heather: fully decentralized technologies are out of scope for our
 work, based on our charter. However, the CHAPI use-case is also
 looking at the identity space and there is a similar use-case with
 Seamless Access. So while we’re not trying to change the scope of
 our group, it would be good to hear what they’re doing.

-   Manu: We’re here to talk about overlaps between the FedCM work and
 CHAPI. Here is CHAPI in one picture.

    -   Three things happen: there is an issuer which issues credentials
     to a digital wallet, and at some point the individual has an
     interaction on the web with a verifier. CHAPI is used to
     exchange verifiable credentials between digital wallets and
     websites. FedCM API parallels what CHAPI does: it exchanges
     identity claims between IDPs and websites. In this model, the
     digital wallet is the IDP.

    -   One area of overlap is registration. In FedCM you have an IDP,
     and it gets integrated with the browser in some way. In CHAPI
     you can use a website or an app for the digital wallet. There
     will be a prompt to ask the user if they would like the
     digital wallet to manage credentials. Later on, when the user
     is in a different security domain and they click on that
     website, they get a wallet chooser. Each icon is a different
     wallet, and the user can pick which one to use. To be clear,
     this individual has a ton of different wallets, and we
     generally wouldn’t expect this many.

    -   The other big overlap we have is selection. The individual needs
     to make a selection about which digital wallet to use. They
     have to choose where to store their credentials. Today, this
     is polyfilled in all major browsers. We use a combination of
     3PC and first-party mode to accomplish the flow. There are
     large deployments of CHAPI that are going live next year. US
     Citizen and Immigration Services want to use this later on, as
     well as some education users. So this is way beyond
     proof-of-concept.

    -   One of the reasons we’re here today is that this 3PC is an
     issue. The UX we had with 3PC with the wallet picker is what
     you see in Chrome today. The wallet selection is protected
     through iframes and such so that the site does not get
     visibility into the wallets that the user has. With 3PC going
     away, we cannot have this anymore. We have to now use this
     image on the right (popup). This has happened for years, i.e.
     this is how Paypal works. It is not so terrible on mobile but
     on desktop it is not great. Because 3PCs are going away, the
     UX is going to get worse.

    -   CHAPI has made a lot of interop tests. We had 17 different
     issuers and 8 different wallets. These companies are moving
     forward with the polyfill.

    -   Before we get into the discussion, I think it is important to
     set some rules in terms of goals and non-goals. We’re not
     trying to move people away from SAML and OpenID. We’re just
     trying to get a mechanism to provide a better user experience.
     We’re not trying to solve generalized data sharing nor that
     FedCM needs to pull decentralized identifiers. One goal is to
     explore the commonalities. CHAPI is built on top of the
     credential management API. We’d like to not have to downgrade
     our UX when 3PCs go away. We’d like to replace parts of the
     CHAPI polyfill with more native calls, if it leads to better
     UX.

    -   The other thing to mention is that a bunch of us met at IIW. Sam
     did a great job doing a writeup in the FedCM repository
     ([<u>issue
     374</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/374)).

-   Sam: A good TL;DR of the issue is that it asks if there is enough
 commonality or if this falls into some other API’s responsibility.
 From Chrome’s perspective, breaking people’s work is not something
 that we take lightly. Many of the architecture choices that CHAPI
 has made are things we are excited about. We are excited about the
 registration of IDP (bring your own). The part I’m most concerned
 about CHAPI is expressivity: the more CHAPI looks like a general
 communication channel, the harder it is to keep privacy
 properties.

-   Heather: We’re trying to fix services that take advantage of 3PCs
 for IDP discovery. That covers a couple of different options.

-   Manu: That is exactly what CHAPI depends on 3PCs for right now. The
 authn.io domain uses local storage to know that the person has
 stored a digital wallet. There seems to be a high degree in terms
 of the selection menu. As Sam said, there is the danger of making
 this a general sharing API. We want to be scoped and precise about
 what we’re trying to solve here.

-   Heather: Regarding the chat question, I think we’re not ready to
 talk about the end customer perspective.

-   Kris: I do not see IDPs as being purely just identity. It can be
 identity and role. I’m not against the idea of merging the two
 streams, but I do think that we should be aware that this would be
 a major change. The concern I have with the merging is also trying
 to boil the ocean with one thing. FedCM should be more focused on
 how to handle federated credentials, and less about the 3PC aspect
 of it.

-   Ben: I think this is really interesting. This is about viewing info
 that’s there, adding your own IDP. There’s an idea of a new user
 interface for identity handling, and there’s how to make federated
 identity as it currently exists work in the absence of 3PCs. I
 think perhaps that is something we need to prioritize more
 clearly. I filed a new proposal last Thursday for something that
 is more focused on the first: a thought experiment.

-   Judith: I’m with OCLC. We’re returning to activity with this group.
 I wanted to advocate for wallets as more than just an identifier
 for a user. A party communicating that a user does have access
 because of affiliation is a use-case.

-   Marty Reed: We support this. We’re looking to implement CHAPI in 3
 US Statewide use cases.

-   James Rosewell: question for Manu — there's a lot of talk in the UK
 about [<u>online safety;
 legislation</u>](https://bills.parliament.uk/bills/3137) going
 through, hopefully next year. You mentioned Age Verification — can
 you expand on that more?

-   Heather: great question, but somewhat out of scope for today's
 discussion.

-   Manu: of course; I'll try to be quick. short answer — yes, CHAPI
 supports that use case. There's a nationwide US program, TruAge,
 that's designed to be privacy-preserving. The way it's solved
 today in the US is — a person hands over their entire drivers
 license (with 35+ pieces of data). TruAge just compresses it down
 to one 'I'm over X age' credential. And it's partly based on
 CHAPI.

-   Heather: listening to the thread of IdP discovery, CHAPI, Seamless
 Access, etc, and thinking back to the other issues we've
 identified with Front Channel Logout & other things that will
 break. I'm a bit worried we'll be distracted by the shiny. There's
 a lot of things we need to get done. So, let's prioritize
 carefully, so that people contributing code know what to focus on.
 (Related links
 [<u>convenience.org</u>](https://www.convenience.org/Media/Press-Releases/2021-Press-Releases/TruAge-Digital-ID-Verification-Solution-Adds-New-P)
 \| [<u>TruAge</u>](https://www.convenience.org/TruAge/Home))

-   John Bradley: I think we're going down a little bit of a rathole on
 the functionality of VerifiableCredentials. If we step back, both
 Seamless Access and CHAPI do a discovery function. In the purest
 form, we should answer — can FedCM actually enable those things,
 to enable discovery, once 3PCs go away. With normal federation
 with single logout, you want to share 3PCs between IdP and SP. But
 here, CHAPI and S.A. are trying to share 3PCs between a discovery
 service and the SP (so that the browser can display the
 appropriate discovery dialogue to the user at the SP). So, the
 first thing we're concerned about is 3PCs, but eventually we'll be
 talking about fragments & query parameters to curtail tracking. So
 question to CHAPI folks — this breaks w/o 3PCs, what breaks
 without query params?

-   Manu: we're not asking for anything specific right now. Both things
 you outlined, John, seem like good things to explore. if we can
 continue to do what we're doing today, meaning, having a good UX
 without a 3PC functionality, that would be an OK outcome. So, we
 just want to be a part of the conversation and share our usecases,
 just in case there's a way to solve everyone's problems.

-   Ben VanderSloot: to the smaller issue, the more easy answer to
 getting this to work despite 3PC deprecation, will be the Storage
 Access API, an iFrame authenticated to a 1st party cookies, so
 that API is currently seeking graduation, has interest from
 Safari, Chrome, Firefox. So that can address the smaller ask. I do
 agree the bigger ask is interesting, and FedCM is the most direct
 comparison.

-   Dave Longley: wanted to respond to that, since we went through an
 implementation cycle using the Storage Access API for CHAPI. It
 was really challenging to make it work — some browsers implement
 it differently, have different gating requirements, prompts for
 the user, etc. We found that it was really difficult to make it
 work with any good UX for CHAPI, so we moved to a fully 1st-party
 flow, so we degrade to a first party flow (window popups), since
 SA API was too challenging.

-   Ben VanderSloot: very good point. in the WebCompat issues wrt
 Storage Access API, very fair. Depending on when you did that, it
 might be slightly better (we've reached a new era of rapid
 convergence on the SA API, so some of the issues should be
 hammered out, hopefully). The thing that still needs to be
 implementer-defined is — when a prompt should show up. But we're
 largely converging on a similar vision for the SA API, and
 hopefully will be shipping that in the coming year.

-   Anil John: good morning/afternoon, I'm Anil John, Technical Director
 with DHS. On behalf of Citizenship & Immigration Service, we're
 moving towards issuing our immigration credentials as digital
 credentials. One of the decisions that we made is that when
 issuing those credentials, we need to ensure that the choice of
 the wallet (where it will get stored) is in the hands of the user.
 That's the core point for me as the customer — I need it to be
 baked into the environment, that puts the choice of the wallet in
 the hands of the user. Currently, the choice is very much about
 the 21st Century version of Nascar buttons (lots & lots of QR
 codes). So, what I'm interested in CHAPI in, is specifically the
 wallet selection. So, I'd make an argument that it is in the
 interest of any public entity, in the US or elsewhere, to make
 that a seamless experience in the browser.

-   Heather: so, we have quite a bit to talk about. If you haven't had a
 chance to look at the relevant GH issues, please do so and
 comment, so we can prioritize what the team can do.

-   Manu: just to speak real quick about next steps from the CHAPI
 perspective, we'll be spending Q1 & Q2 next year, prototyping
 against using FedCM with the CHAPI UI — chrome canary builds, etc.
 We'll be looking at that from a "let's actually implement some
 code & see if there's bits and pieces of FedCM that we can use to
 make the experience better", and then we can report back to this
 group how the implementation went. Like, do the new StorageAccess
 API workflows work, are the proposed pieces of FedCM helpful for
 our workflow, etc. We hope to do some active development
 incubation and report back to this group, hopefully by end of Q1
 next year.

-   Heather: our next call is a week from today, and it's the Pacific
 call, so ensure you have the calendars right. Then it's the
 holidays, and our next Atlantic call is Jan 9. I try to keep
 calendars up to date, and it's not perfect, that's why you see
 cancellation notices once a month. This has been a really
 productive year. Go forth, do good things, and we'll see you next
 year!



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   [<u>Ted Thibodeau</u>](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him)
 (OpenLink Software)

-   Zacharias Törnblom (SUNET, Swedish University Computer Network)

-   Dmitri Zagidulin (MIT / DCC)

-   Judith Bush (OCLC)

-   Dave Longley (Digital Bazaar)

-   Manu Sporny (Digital Bazaar)

-   Kimberly Wilson Linson (RANDA Solutions)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, co-chair)

-   Shawn Butterfield (Salesforce)

-   [<u>Sarven Capadisli</u>](https://csarven.ca/#i) (Inrupt)

-   James Rosewell (51Degrees)

-   Greg Bernstein

-   Anil John (US DHS / SVIP)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Marty Reed (RANDA Solutions)

-   Mateusz Ruminski (RTB House)

-   Sophia Yakhno (Preiskel & Co)

-   Patrick Borman (Preiskel & Co)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Chrome)

-   Sander Engelberts (OCLC)

-   Peter Kotwicz (Chrome)

-   Christian Biesi

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Jim Goodell (QIP & Chair of IEEE Learning Technology Standards
 Committee)

-   Dan Moore (FusionAuth)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Juan Caballero (Centre.io)

-   John Bradley (Yubico)

-   Michael Shea (The Dingle Group)

-   Joe Andrieu (Legendary Requirements)

-   Brent Shambaugh
