# FedID CG Notes, 14/15 March 2022

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Sam Goto, Michael Knowles

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s) - Sam Goto, Michael Knowles

-   Reminders:

    -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) and the [<u>W3C Community Contributor License Agreement</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

<!-- -->

-   [<u>Community Group Report</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit)

-   Review [<u>Primitives by Use Case</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Primitives-by-Use-Case)

    -   Discuss options for the 3PC use cases - see for example [<u>OIDC Front Channel Logout</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/OIDC-Front-Channel-Logout)


-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   Heather: Tim, myself and Sam G met last week and we worked on the
 [<u>community draft report</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit),
 the enumeration of options, etc

-   Heather: the overview section was added today, we made the
 terminology section significantly smaller.

-   Vittorio: the flow that is shown in the diagram is “the most basic
 flow”, we don’t want to leave people with the wrong impression.

-   Heather: “Understand Basic Federated Identity Flows” works better
 than “Understanding THE Federated Identity Flows”?

-   Vittorio: LGTM

-   Tim: “Understanding the Parties involved?”

-   Kris: That could work.

-   Discussion on comments that Sam had made previously

-   Sam: I’ll remove my comments

-   Sam: Comment was about trust of agents and the threat model

-   Sam: Doc as is looks good for now

-   Heather: Key use cases now

-   Heather: We have Cliff Notes version and specific use-cases and use
 cases that were added to GitHub. Tim has made some progress on
 that

-   Heather: Could go about it that way (in GitHub). But maybe discuss
 what protocol items are important and let that determine which
 items are important for 3PCD

    -   Front Channel logout

    -   Session Management

    -   Background Renewal in iframes

-   Heather: SAML Single-Logout also here but no one implements it well

    -   Not sure if we want to discuss that any further, at least not
     right now

-   Heather: So… focusing on those three top items and implementations
 that use those three things.

    -   IDP Federation

    -   RP with Embedded Resources

-   Heather: Comes back to something very concrete in the protocol
 that’s being used

-   Vittorio: In favor - it’s a pragmatic approach in direct line of
 sight that we need to fix

    -   Compared to document order which doesn't really reflect
     importance in the real world

-   Heather: If you drill down far enough they all come back these items
 anyway

-   Heather: Tim: Reframing this section - could use the help

-   Heather: coming back to the table and if that drives marching orders
 going forward that leads to [<u>this table</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/OIDC-Front-Channel-Logout)

    -   Alternates to Front-Channel logout: Back Channel Logout

    -   What are the implications of that

    -   Do other Browsers support it etc?

-   Vittorio: This table solves logout but not Front Channel logout

    -   How does the Front Channel logout break?

    -   Needs to point out particular mitigations

    -   Can use custom domains and add same domain as RP

    -   Allows logouts to continue working

    -   Not everyone can do this, but we should allow this

    -   Alternate: Everything we tried to do for front channel logout
     failed so maybe abandon?

    -   Alternate: Custom domains

-   Tim: Are we including implementation details on the left of the
 table (not just specs?)

-   Vittorio: Meant that there are solutions that are still in teh realm
 of front channel logout

    -   Assuming shoes of someone who uses FRont Channel Logout

    -   If only one RP and one identity flow you can still use it

    -   Create custom domain that makes RP domain same as IDP domain and
     everything still works

    -   Try to solve those the easy way before doing the “nuclear
     option” described here

    -   Imagine Session Management – could very well be the same table
     because there’s nothing specific to Front Channel logout here

-   Sam: Agree that there is a row missing here playing with CNAMES and
 custom domains that could be used in these cases

-   Vittorio: Dimension of whether you can keep your code vs. need new
 code

    -   In particular if all you need to do is a small configuration
     modification that could be useful too

-   Tim: Custom domains is just an implementation detail. This should go
 at the bottom with the other non-spec/non-protocol solutions.

-   Vittorio: Making that explicit as an axis could be useful for people
 reading this doc

-   Kris: Opposite approach: Go from techniques and privacy concerns and
 map backwards

    -   EG: CNAMES – could use that but CNAMES are under threat from
     some browsers

    -   Cascading privacy changes that we need to be aware of that could
     constrain the solutions

-   Vittorio: Bias is in protecting customers and their existing
 functionality

    -   As long as things keep working and don’t introduce new privacy
     issues that should be fine

    -   Good argument for being explicit for these considerations

-   Kris: Privacy modifications that are in the works or are being
 discussed (eg in PrivacyCG)

    -   So keep both and keep them together to allow people to flow back
     and forth

    -   Or combine it all into one big table

-   Heather: Will give some thought on how that could look like

-   Dan: Would it be useful to add another column specifying same origin
 vs cross origin

    -   Might be different

    -   Sam points out that “Limited Use Cases” captures that

    -   First Party Sets (FPS) will work in some cases and not all cases
     but that is not clear from the table

    -   Should clarify things that are only applicable in FPS vs. not

-   Sam: Vittorio pointed out CNAME / Custom Domains but that solution
 may not be applicable to all scenarios so we should point that out

-   Kris: Do you mean same org vs. same domain?

    -   Concerns about including FPS in here - doubt that FPS will be an
     answer in Saleforce’s solution will be requirement to share
     same privacy proposal

    -   A lot has to be worked out in FPS to make sure it will work here
     (at all)

    -   So there are some tikming / dependencies that still need to be
     identified somewhere

-   Vittorio: We all know there are no guarantees

    -   CNAME may not work everywhere

    -   Back Channel logout not even a standard

    -   So, any solution will have a lot of caveats

    -   Need enough info so that people who go through the list have
     enough context to know applicability

    -   Eg., might need to record the need for stateful flows

    -   In general need more detail

-   Heather: Vittorio can also help to edit it. Can help to contribute
 and enrich it

-   Kris: Safari requirement for (interactivity?) would be problematic

    -   Any solution for Federated Identity needs to be opened up in the
     other Browsers’ related proposals so they can a) be made aware
     of these use cases and b) these use cases can be brought up
     and addressed

-   Sam: We should enumerate and collect options. Write down as many as
 we can and the constraints of the options

    -   Haven’t found any options that will solve all the scenarios yet,
     and they are not mutually exclusive.

    -   So, try to enumerate them as exhaustively as possible

    -   Also that could help to inform exploring for alternate solutions

-   Heather: Do you want to try to do that now? Or collect info
 asynchronously (and add to Wiki that way)?

-   Sam: WAnt to ask the group whether the table is complete? Vittorio
 said no - at least one row that needs to be added. Request for us
 to generally think like Vittorio in terms of additional rows or
 even columns that are missing

-   Vittorio: One missing column “how the feature that is called out
 would be used”

    -   Some are obvious (Front channel logout)

    -   But others are not obvious (CHIPS, Admin Controls)

    -   One sentence description to say how that option would be used
     would be immensely useful especially for people not in our
     current cohort who don’t have context.

-   Kris: Pros and Cons are useful, also need to be user-agent specific

-   Heather: Agreed - pros and cons are so much “it depends”

    -   Pretty careful to keep out emotive language / judgements.

    -   Just include the facts on what each browser supports / doesn’t
     support

-   Kris: Storage Access API was not design with Federated Identity
 preservation in mind

    -   So even though it came from Apple / Safari, it wouldn’t work
     (isn’t complete ) to support FedID

-   Vittorio: If we discovered that there was just one small thing that
 each browser didn’t support this table would be very useful.

-   Kris: AGreed and if we have this table, helps to produce concrete

-   Ben: Forward Declaration of Storage Access API is being included in
 future versions of that spec, so having these additional details /
 use cases available would be very helpful.

-   Kris: Sam’s comment of adding backchannel into proposals:

    -   There are proposals being worked on, and there are currently
     supported primitives that allow this to be done in a different
     way

    -   Do we want to differentiate that?

    -   (eg 3P Cookies vs. CNAMES / Custom Domains)

-   Sam: (channeling inner Vittorio :) ) Mental model of the table seen
 from the model fo “What should I do if I am responsible for
 running an identity system that supports Front Channel Logout” I
 am told tha FCL will break and IU come to this group to get
 guidance on what to do:

    -   Move to back channel logout

    -   Move to First Party sets

    -   Etc.

-   If anyone came to this table would they find the solution here?

-   Kris: Not sure that is true esp. In the details

-   Vittorio: Take what Sam says and replace “should” with “could”.

    -   Not everyone will be able to adopt all options, so we need
     alternatives for people to be able to pick and choose from

-   Kris: What are the considerations associated with each proposed
 solution? To allow people to make an informed choice

-   Sam: In general want to allow for an assessment of constraints and
 options

    -   And we want a table that is complete enough for people to
     determine the most appropriate solution for them

-   Heather: Vittorio, you indicated that we might be able to repeat
 this table for Session Management

-   Vittorio: This seems to be from the Logout problem in general (not
 specifically for Front Channel Logout

    -   If we do Session Management can we include Fenced Frames here?

    -   Or is there a stepping stone where people can preserve most of
     existing code and just change some small config item

    -   Maybe there is something we could point out here about what
     specifically breaks vs. the broader issue of Logout (for
     example)

-   Vittorio: I like the direction we are going – want to help
 developers in the best possible way.

    -   Want something like a Rosetta Stone to allow developers to
     determine how to achieve their goals (as easily as possible)

-   Kris: Maybe Trust Tokens should be listed as potential possibilities
 for certain scenarios.

    -   (Heather will follow up over Slack on this with Kris)

-   Sam: What are next steps to address lack

-   Heather: Lots of suggestions from today on columns / rows to add –
 can edit the table directly

    -   This table is solving for Logout

    -   Can’t quite grasp what Session Management - what breaks for that

    -   Need more info on that

    -   Also need more info background token renewal

-   Vittorio: A session is what Open ID describes as a way to know
 whether a session is active for a user or not

    -   Open hidden iframe on the IDP domain and wait for changes (do
     hidden cookie)

    -   And when a change happens it is time for logging out

    -   If there are no more 3P Cookies, this technique won’t work

    -   Session Management \*IS\* the usual mechanism used to indicate
     logout

    -   And Session Renewal - instead of doing redirects at top level
     just do that within the iframe. But again as soon as you don’t
     have a 3P Cookie, that redirect-in-frame technique no longer
     works.

-   Sam: Wanted to make a suggestion on how to improve the table: Would
 it be terrible to move that table into a Google Doc? Might make it
 easier to collaborate on?

-   Heather: Not as wide open as we would like. Eg., some of us aren’t
 able to access Google Docs due to employer constraints, etc.

-   Heather: Will think about how to migrate that (to Google Docs) –
 might need to have two forms and keep them in sync

-   Sam: We are aware of use-cases that are going to break not shown:

    -   Social Widget

    -   Personalized Buttons

-   Sam: We’ve heard from product teams that indicated that they are
 important enough to preserve (they are in the Use CAses Libraries)

-   Heather: For FedID - what are those widget doing wrt Fed ID?

-   Sam: Personalized Buttons are personalized once you’ve logged in
 (via Fed ID)

    -   Not specifically related to the Protocol

-   Heather: So they set a cookie that has enough info to personalize
 that, when clicked, takes to Federated Identity Flow

-   Sam: Social Widgets are also similar

-   Vittorio: IT’s a bit tricky - from Federated Identity perspective
 these sound like something that happens before the Fed ID login. -
 not Federated Identity per se.

    -   Also – doesn’t seem to be common

    -   Trying to find examples OTHER than Google

    -   Can’t find anyone else who does that

    -   Might be immaterial

    -   But if we want to be strict not sure if it completely qualifies

-   Heather: Next week is IETF week

    -   But we conflict with OAuth WG

    -   But still don’t want to cancel

    -   And we’re starting to hit Conference Season

    -   So… we’d like to still have it and keep moving on to make progress


Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, co-chair)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0 \| Okta)

-   Sam Goto (Google / Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google/Chrome)

-   Jaime Perez (Yahoo)

-   dan sinclair (Google / Chrome)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)
