# FedID CG call notes (Pacific), 21/22 November 2022
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   IIW readout

    -   [<u>FedCM 101</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18-KCYYEfTGB-4nGkmL0myb8k01ESyUgoEi5uZv5Ns8s/edit)

    -   [<u>Federated Identity and IdP Discovery</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QEQ5SeV-RTw2UnF5_jnPk-HD7ZKGoEA788JEeWNvI68/edit) (.edu use case)

    -   [<u>Modern Session Management in OIDC</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GpRL4CGGidBYknYfU6QRdFLlZJrgAWQvd57vRdrIECw/edit)

    -   [<u>Mapping FedCM to OIDC Capabilities</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nhvHKWti1-941M6wf_yNh8TVNRDgN8r3KvaN2ssZwFg/edit)

    -   CHAPI + FedCM: Wallet &gt; selection (discussed at IIW but captured in a FedCM [<u>GitHub issue</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/374))

-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   IIW Catch Up

    -   Sam Goto: SAML issues, could use screenshots of specific things

    -   Heather: I captured the snapshots and they are documented and
 different depending on browser. Wish I had a few more of the
 before shots, because at this point it doesn’t work on any
 browser

    -   Github Issue with Screen Shots:
 [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/4\#issuecomment-1322698929</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/4#issuecomment-1322698929)

    -   Heather: in the seamless access docs, it shows the various flows
 with screen grabs. We don’t care about auth or not, what
 matters is you selected something. This system makes it so you
 don’t need to do frequent discovery

    -   Heather: As a related problem, we know Single Logout will break.
 It is a security issue and we need it squared, but getting
 those test cases are hard. Nicole Roy mentioned Univ Cal had
 done something similar in the past and we got commitment from
 someone there for context who I have a meeting with tomorrow
 so we can test this.

-   Credential Community Group and CHAPI API

    -   Sam: I knew Mano from semantic web and he’s interested in CHAPI.
 CHAPI breaks in the absence of 3rd party cookies. CHAPI is an
 API designed for the browser. Mano built this as a Poly-fill
 JS that can be added to the browser. It is useful for Wallet
 selection along with credentialing. The CHAPI API allows you
 to pick a wallet previously installed in your browser session:

        -   1\) Go to wallet site

        -   2\) create account

        -   3\) use API to install wallet into browser

        -   4\) Wallet asks for permission to be installed into browser
     context

            -   The embedded CHAPI JS Poly-fill is how the wallet is
         added to the browser

            -   CHAPI is a 3rd party iframe where the wallet credential
         is stored as a 3rd party cookie for the logged in
         user.

        -   No 3rd Party Cookies = No working CHAPI

    -   Sam: On the reading side, if you want to store credentials into
 the wallet, then a site can generate a verifiable credential
 as effectively a JSON payload. The CHAPI API calls get() to
 pull your wallets, you select the wallet, and then the new
 credential is stored as a certificate into the wallet. Uses
 top level redirects and pop-ups in the place of 3rd party
 cookies. Effectively the Issuer, Verifier, the Wallet is the
 holder, and CHAPI pretends to be the browser. The JSON payload
 is something the issuer wants to store at a holder. Based on
 which wallet you select the JSON payload is stored to the
 wallet.

    -   Ben: looks like they are actually using browser storage for the
 wallet, not the cookie.

    -   Sam: there are 2 cookies in the wallet, 1st is storage for
 authn.io is the api as 3rd party browser storage

    -   Cameron: That iframe is the API, Authin.io is not storage

    -   Heather: this sounds like seamless access, it’s using browser
 local storage, is cross domain, and stores prefs but it’s more
 like wallet credentials. The difference is CHAPI is focused on
 1 aspect of decentralized identity and seamless access is at
 the start.

    -   Sam: I think this will work with centralized identifiers.

    -   Heather: are you thinking FedCM is something CHAPI can tie into
 or are you thinking of taking the CHAPI model for a user
 interface?

    -   Sam: Breakage isn’t great, Is this big enough that it won’t
 break? Mano will help us understand, it’s useful for Nicole to
 tell us. I know this breaks but is it important that it does,
 and if it is important then what’s the cheapest way to make it
 not break? Maybe switch to link decoration or something else.
 Many similarities between CHAPI and FedCM without much change.
 If we change nothing, can CHAPI use it? They have a few things
 that won’t be a perfect fit but I’m still interested. You can
 bring your own wallet, not tell what wallets you work with.

    -   Ben: how’s that work for UX?

    -   Sam: it’s the same as the 1st shot I showed you. Similar to sign
 in status API. We’d wanna add that to identity provisioning.

    -   Ben: I agree and think that’s a good next step.

    -   Sam: I’ll share my link to what people said in the past as a
 bring your own IDP registration pass:
 [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/240\#issuecomment-1084051071</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/240#issuecomment-1084051071)

    -   Ben: good and bad news. Right now storage access api is adequate
 for API now but in 2 months the Storage will be partitioned
 and so it won’t work

    -   Heather: we want to make sure people know this use case came up
 and acts like another use case we already have so if we can
 solve for 1 we can solve for other. But need to be clear on
 scope.

    -   Sam: Fits into preservation, something folks depend on that we
 want to make sure is preserved. If it is we want it to fit
 into CGs charter

    -   Heather: deals with 3rd party cookie breakages in 3rd party
 federation flow. Discovery isn’t always considered part of the
 Federated ID flow and you can’t auth until we complete
 discovery. This doesn’t count as federation, because it makes
 me concerned about how we define “wallet”. Still a lot of
 undefined reqs around credentials, issuance, validation, etc.
 Then there's also browser vs OS wallets.

    -   Heather: Sam did you take notes for meeting with Dasi?

    -   Sam: yes I think they are running something by the Shibboleth
 community to see how much they want to publicize.

-   Token Acquisition for 3rd party cookies

    -   Sam: I am not sure if I am aware of any issues filed for this.

    -   Heather: Tim and I will talk about that on tomorrows chairs call

-   Misc:

    -   Chris: I want to discuss multiple IDPs (issue 319)

    -   Sam: Some of the APIs are awkward we are trying to work with ben
 to find better APIs but it’s not easy to streamline. With
 Nicole we hit enough ideas that we shouldn’t get boxed in.
 Chrome doesn’t have a lot of research and edu experience so
 Chris we could use your help exploring that

    -   Chris: exactly, that’s why you see the contributions because we
 have that kind of discovery. The identity diversity or
 credential origins can be hard to maintain a chain of custody
 on. How can we manage affiliation versus work sign in, and
 that ability is well served for the user to have good UX. We
 have some lab environments for more consistent online places
 to do that instead of table topping it. Just getting the right
 mix/blend or use case testing to get the right canary and UI
 and so on set up to test at scale.

    -   Sam: Might be interesting to organize a research and edu
 discussion time. Would be helpful to get us together and
 understand the relationship map.

    -   Heather: might be nice to schedule a 2 day workshop in canada
 and see what we can do. Chris and Nicole are fed operators.

-   FedCM Updates

    -   Sam: Ben we are wondering how implementation is going.

    -   Ben: until we have fetch implemented, the last batches of
 patches were early implementation prototype

    -   Sam: maybe grab time in a future meeting to demo and do interop
 investigation

    -   Ben: sure

    -   Sam: Ben here’s the bring your own IDP thread, can you add to it
 and maybe share your thoughts?
 [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/240\#issuecomment-1084051071</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/240#issuecomment-1084051071)

    -   Ben: sure, I can say something on behalf of Mozilla. ANother
 point to follow up in terms of implementation, we are getting
 some UX work so we should have some user flow diagrams and an
 actual UX to see soon.


Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Chris Phillips (CANARIE)
