# FedID CG call (Atlantic) - 10 October 2022

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Sam and team

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Sam and team

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   Authenticate 2022

    -   IIW XXXV Fall 2022

-   [<u>Charter PR</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/pull/2)

-   FedCM

    -   [<u>Issue 348: Support for RP controls to support meaningful integration into their user flows</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/348)

    -   [<u>Issue 320: Why Sec-FedCM-CSRF and not Sec-Fetch-Mode</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/320)

    -   [<u>Issue 319: Allow multiple IdPs to be used</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/319)

-   AOB

    -  (if there is time) speaking of escape hatches, since we have Tim and Ben on the
 call, may be interesting to get Ben's early guidance on the
 Work Profile API Tim, in case we can get that on the agenda

Notes
=====

-   Conferences

    -   Authenticate happening, FIDO alliance

    -   IIW in the bay area, expecting to sell out. Unconference.

    -   IETF

[<u>Charter PR</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/fedidcg.github.io/pull/2)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   Charter: any more comments? No comments. Heather to accept the PR
 and declare this our charter for the next year (or until the CG
 decides it needs to change, whichever comes first)

[<u>Issue 348: Support for RP controls to support meaningful integration into their user flows</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/348) 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   May be relevant to 319

-   (Sam) this is the diagram that covers the corner cases from the RPs
 perspective. Most of the purple boxes can be pulled into the
 browser and provide the affordances necessary. If you have to
 expose web platform API for each point, you’ll introduce friction.
 It will be less expressive, but it won’t introduce user friction
 or tracking risk.

-   (Achim) correct, and expected that feedback. It’s a question of when
 you share what information with whom. This was intentionally
 separated from the technical solution. The functionality is more
 important than the technical detail.

-   (Sam) question to the group: if we believe that Achim’s diagram is
 generally representative of various deployments, or is it an
 oversimplification? Can we enumerate this diagram?

-   (Vittorio) don’t think there is any way of capturing this in neat
 categories. Even without going into authentication, I observed
 that RPs think about anything happening between user wanting to
 access their stuff and actually accessing their stuff, all sorts
 of things can happen as the user tries to gain access. For
 classification purposes, Achim’s diagram is fine but it is not
 exhaustive. If the API is rigid and prescriptive, with no latitude
 for the IdP or RP to inject stuff, we’ll be in trouble.

-   (Sam) that’s a typical tension when pulling stuff into the browser.
 Is there enough deployment for a browser to bake that down into
 browserland, that would lead to better UX for the majority of
 users? We want an extensible API (e.g., storage access api)

-   (Vittorio) that makes sense to me. I was reacting to the question of
 whether the diagram is exhaustive. Absolutely right that the most
 frequent things deserve to have affordances, as long as the
 assumption of those affordances doesn’t negate everything else.

-   (Achim) The intention of the diagram was not to enumerate all the
 potential flows an RP might trigger. It was expressing that the RP
 might have different needs depending on the business processes.

-   (Sam) we’re starting to work towards an affordance that allows the
 user to login with an IdP (see
 [<u>https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/\#the-idp-sign-in-status-api</u>](https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/#the-idp-sign-in-status-api)).
 This is going over a solution to a different problem, but it’s
 maybe the same API affordance.

-   (Ben) that might be more akin to the “already signed in by the IdP”.
 The idea of an IdP signin flow is that if you’re already on the RP
 and haven’t logged in yet, how do we handle that. There are
 different UX options and something we want to support, but
 currently have no way to do. If I’m on RP and not logged into an
 IdP, should I be able to log in to any of them?

-   (Tim) does that imply the account would be listed in the picker but
 have no state?

-   (Sam) that’s one option

-   (Ben) that would be nice, to include an IdP that has no state
 stored. If the user chooses that, it kicks off something.

-   (Tim) this would be critical for the IdP preferencing problem.

-   (Vittorio) concerned about reinventing about something we have to
 deal with in the identity space, and going through the same
 trajectory of pain. One thing that’s emerged as a trend is
 ID-centric discovery. The list of IdPs can be enormous. You end up
 having a user typing in an identifier and then having the system
 resolve something. Not suggesting doing anything different, but
 know you’re touching on complexity that is considered solved with
 identity flows. Maybe its intrinsic in putting this in browser
 functionality that you won’t be able to cover all scenarios.

-   (Sam) what’s the next step to resolve this issue?

-   (Ben) there’s a broader question about what does the UX flow look
 like for these more broad cases. We are painting ourselves into a
 similar corner, and we’re seeing an issue of a double-NASCAR
 problem. Given the idea of having the need for multiple IdPs in
 the API plus the multiple IdP placeholder, need to have a broader
 conversation about what do we need from the perspective of the IdP
 not to be seen as a regression

-   (Tim) don’t show the button if conditional mediation is available.
 Having the same challenges with passkey. The best way to ensure we
 don’t ruffle feathers, if the user is not signed in and there is
 an IdP in the list, a regular sign-in flow is kicked off in
 another window.

-   (Sam) will try to come up with some UI mocks to make sure we’re on
 the same page. We are assuming that the user can sign into the IdP
 without knowing who the RP is.

-   (Tim) that will hit a wall; the IdP must know who the RP is.

-   (Vittorio) the IdP will need to send a token to address X. The RP
 has to be registered with the IdP.

-   (Sam) \[display of mocks shown at TPAC\]

-   (Vittorio) The RP may have a dynamic list of IdPs driven by logic
 that lives on a server somewhere. The entire pattern may be
 incompatible with the browser showing options because then you
 will get the double-NASCAR problem with both the RP and the
 browser needing to show options. The browser can’t expect the RP
 to show the IdPs on that list because the RP will only accept data
 from one source (for the list of IdPs)

-   (Tim) looking at the API design, could imagine a world with an IdP
 nesting model. It’s possible, if complicated.

-   (Achim) what Vittorio is describing around cascading is in other
 tickets. If we strip away the cascading we introduce a lot of
 complexity

-   (Brian D) regaridng the statement APIs need to support complex
 flows; if I have a high value account as an RP I want to be able
 to pull multiple IdPs and show that multiple authentication event
 have happened. If the API can pull that off great, but the UX will
 be bad there.

[<u>Issue 320: Why Sec-FedCM-CSRF and not Sec-Fetch-Mode</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/320) 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   (Sam) don’t have more to add than what’s in the thread, but wants to
 know if Ben has learned more from his co-workers. Google still
 stands by their research so far.

-   (Ben) position hasn’t changed; defers to people with direct involved
 in Fetch and whether CORS is appropriate here. Still need to
 discuss internally.

-   (Sam) we’re trying to push this hard because this could introduce a
 backward-incompatible change.

[<u>Issue 319: Allow multiple IdPs to be used</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/319)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   (Sam) Fun! Do we agree on the problem? (See TPAC mocks re: JS SDKs.)
 Today, our account chooser supports only one IdP at a time. We
 think it would be good to have the account chooser showing
 multiple IdPs. The question is how to do this. We’re struggling
 with the design because the person that calls the JS API is not
 the RP directly; the RP embeds the Google SDK, and the Google SDK
 calls the FedCM API. This would be the same with a Facebook SDK,
 Apple SDK, etc. Is it possible to accomplish the account info in
 those SDKs without the RP to redeploy their systems? If that’s a
 worthy goal, first observation is that many of those things are
 called by the SDKs. Did consider other alternatives: obvious
 solution would be for the RP to pass a list of IdPs, but that
 would require the RP to change behavior. Another solution would
 use some browser trickery as described in the issue

-   (Tim) wouldn’t all RPs have to change regardless?

-   (Sam) I think possible to allow other accounts to show without
 requiring the RP to change.

-   (Tim) in order to get the FedCM prompt, the RP would have to change?

-   (Sam) maybe not if they are using the SDK, because the SDK would be
 what calls the FedCM API. We know for a face that there is a JS
 library that the RP embeds. Some of what we’re considering now are
 along the lines of SDKs being cooperative, not adversarial.
 Whoever calls the navigator.credential first wins, and the second
 call will be ignored. Still sorting out how to describe this in
 the GitHub issues.

-   (Brian D) one of the goals is to minimize changes to the RP, but
 this introduces UX changes - would that be something that’s
 opt-in, or would it be default? If we’re minimizing code changes,
 are we also minimizing UX changes?

-   (Sam) Good question. Don’t know answer yet. This is likely going to
 be a decision that the second IdP will have to make. There might
 be config in the developer console for this.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)

-   Chris Lemmons (Comcast)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (OKTA)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation)

-   Alex Cone (Coir)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)
