# FedID CG Notes - 18 July 2022 (Atlantic)
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron Boozarjomehri

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Cameron Boozarjomehri

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   [<u>Use Case Tree</u>](https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/91b11838886) and [<u>third-party cookie mitigation table</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Third-party-cookie-mitigations) updates continued

-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   Federated Login Tree Diagram


-   Kris Chapman: Trying to develop the diagram to be more from a
  technical standpoint. Started adding in decision trees for the
  NASCAR page of when to do different behaviors. For \#3 the
  decision tree gets more complicated based on whether the RP and
  IDP are linked. Not sure if it makes it easier to understand,
  started from most complicated, would appreciate feedback

-   Vittorio: The main challenge is still “what thing is this diagram
  trying to help the reader for”? It’s not clear what the goal of
  the diagram is for and how it helps resolve the behavior. What is
  the problem we are trying to solve? What might a normal flow with
  no complications look like? Instead here it seems like there are
  pointers pointing to a variety of potential features that may not
  be valuable to the person examining the diagram. Then there's the
  practical layer which is still a bit missing. Every choice is
  valid, just needs to be made more explicit. Need to bring clarity
  to the space. What is this a guide for? Who is it for? What level
  of detail would a dev need?

-   Heather Flanagan: Started with smaller diagrams to build a high
  level view of the space. Then going to consolidate to identify all
  the moving parts of the space. This is complicated and will get
  more complicated but not the final doc we will produce.

-   Vittorio: Still want to understand who is the typical audience and
  how will they use this? Right now it seems more like we are taking
  our knowledge and making a single picture but I don’t see the
  practical use. If I put myself in the shoes of a newbie, I
  wouldn’t understand which federated flow I need or when I need it.
  We can’t take all our knowledge and transfer it using just this.

-   Peter KH: 2 questions, 1 if I have any issues are there any places
  in the github to share these issues, 2 How do other browser
  compare. We know people have questions about FedCM and Chrome but
  not clear how the issues translate to other browsers like Firefox.

-   Kris: Nothing in the github now but will have an issue for feedback
  soon and will move items to there. Yes there is missing info, for
  Vittorio’s feedback, for things like \#2 on the diagram, I have at
  the bottom the historical context for the point of each item like
  when to highlight an IDP. When a user is using chrome that might
  be FedCM if not then might not need to use storage access API.
  Give context on when to use each API and which flows have endpoint
  I don’t have access for. Red “?” denotes no answer to how the
  route might handle a behavior.

-   Peter: Can’t speak to this updated diagram, would like to know if
  this is something other browsers have solved and how it could be
  understood in the context of their solution.

-   Tim Cappalli: Jason believe storage access will sort front channel
  logout

-   Vittorio: if the goal is to just remember former choices such as
  pre-select provider then we don’t need it because we are already
  1st party. This could be confusing for someone looking at this
  because these scenarios become redundant. May be complication such
  as redirect from POST but then that is when I would want that
  clarified under that limited use case. If I am a developer seeing
  extra steps that I don’t need to do then why are you showing me
  it?

-   Kris: this is more, it needs correction in the flow but this is for
  3rd party cookies in Fed CM. Should contextualize by which cookie
  1st/3rd is being accessed.

-   Vittorio: to me we should only include the essentials because if we
  keep adding all cases this becomes too complicated

-   Peter Gietz: My observation is 1) is the support of the protocols
  static? Which will be supported at what time? If not I hope
  browser vendors will implement a protocol even if note supported
  now. Should capture protocol support base on feature available and
  not specific browsers. 2) the Red “?” squares give me an uncertain
  feeling. Is there a protoc there? Do we need to update the trees
  so that the protocols will show up.

-   Kris: I want to know if we missed something and what’s the answer
  and if we don’t have an answer what should we do? That’s the
  reason for the “?” boxes. Part of the goal of this was to help
  identify what protocols to support.

-   Heather: What I found most useful was the list of what are all the
  projects going on and seeing where they’d fit in the grand scheme
  of the flow. \#3 is an example of here’s what would fit here and
  context set but I am not a dev so figuring out what goes where and
  having a dev look at it to sort what woks best for me is my core
  question.

-   Vittorio: maybe instead of the complexity. We can have some of this
  as decoration for the flow, and not actually as part of the flow
  when those features are actually optional and may never actually
  impact the flow.

-   Heather: where to take out arrows? This is to flow in to the IDP

-   Kris: the flow of \#3 is all about what does someone need to do to
  check a user is logged in

-   Vittorio: again this is a 1st party scenario so it’s simplified.
  Until you use cookie to get token you don’t know. None of the ones
  in there will help. Just need to do it for 3rd party. Can do the
  same for login status api, not something you need to go through to
  make this behavior work.

-   Kris: This isn’t definitive, missing steps and considerations. Once
  I setup feedback would appreciate highlighting anything I missed
  (would be very helpful

-   Heather: I’m looking forward to getting feedback from PrivacyCG once
  this is in GitHub. They could also use the help of seeing how
  things fit in context. I’ll post in their slack.

  

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, co-chair)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0\|Okta)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Michael Knowles (Google / Chrome)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)

-   Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome)

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI International)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Brain Campbell (Ping)

-   Dani Katzman (Cross River)
