# FedID CG call notes - 29/30 August 2022

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe:

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Cameron Boozarjomehri

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   [<u>TPAC 2022 Planning</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1616EDFkRvzMEJT1xE-ZDZHAmQjRcY5TxAiANcbbJcA8/edit)

-   FedCM [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/331</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/331)

-   AOB

    -   [<u>Chrome Decision Tree</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/pull/19)

Notes
=====

-   TPAC

    -   Heather: Several open work items for decision teams

        -   30 min with Privacy CG on Monday

        -   Introduce them to the decision trees, see how privacy fits with FedID

        -   Will have a small onsite room, (small group of 8 can be in room) to discuss key topics

    -   Sam Goto: Room is booked for entire event (can only accommodate
 8 folks), can be for small discussions and white boarding.
 Will also have structured breakout sessions. Planning hallway
 meetings and breakout sessions. Chrome/FedCM team wanted to
 make time (like office hours) to stop by and ask questions.
 Have some indepth smaller meetings. Planning some smaller
 events also happening. Mozilla has a few open issues that we
 are making forward progress on. Hoping to have few hours each
 day with mozilla

    -   Heather: In the [<u>TPAC FedID CG page put doc for setting
 times</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1616EDFkRvzMEJT1xE-ZDZHAmQjRcY5TxAiANcbbJcA8/edit)
 in that room to discuss.

    -   Sam: breakout sessions with mozilla

        -   Discuss timing attack problem

        -   Multi party account user

        -   Will try to add a call for meetings as well so others can
     join

    -   Sam: will have all fed cm team and have web buyers (their web
 platform director)

    -   Vittorio: Will I still have access if I don’t have registration
 for wednesday

    -   Heather: we don’t know how strict they will be with meeting in
 person

    -   Sam: wednesday will be the breakout sessions so good day for
 those discussions. The Google/FedCM room is just a room you
 should have access to regardless of TPAC access. Wednesday we
 will also discuss same party federation and would like to have
 vittorio come

    -   Nick: reach out to W3C team just to let them know (by email) to
 be precise about numbers

-   Does the FedCM project name need to change?

    -   Sam Goto: We used to call this “Web ID” but learned we couldn’t
 call it that by tim burners lee, looked in to other options
 and came up with “Federated Credential Management API” chance
 to reuse federated credential type from the chrome team. Less
 work to use different types and keep the name. Now that we
 work more with Mozilla and FedCM may be better to change name
 since this is a good time before publishing more formal
 documentation and ecosystem kicks in. Name has some downsides
 like have 2 APIs with the same name. Worth asking, especially
 since Mozilla is implementing this they could ask a better
 name.

    -   Heather: I have a poll ready for renaming it.

    -   Sam: I would like to hear what the process is to know how to
 handle this and let safari have a voice in this as well.

    -   Heather: this industry is bad at naming things so address that
 now. Having this at TPAC is great but only if the participants
 are willing to participate in good faith. Not sure it will be
 a good use of our time. We can at least do the poll today to
 help narrow it down.

    -   Vittorio: Designers are very fond of asking people to
 classifying things and it might be overkill, but in person it
 might be useful to do this exercise to make sure we name it
 something that is clearly associated with that feature based
 on the descriptive language. Then the outcome could be “choose
 among these” otherwise we may end up making the name
 arbitrary.

    -   Sam: could use some room time to have those discussions in
 person.

    -   Tim Cappalli: I disagree with Vittorio, FedCM has lasted for a
 while means that we should be changing the name only if the
 difference merits the change and makes more sense than FedCM.

    -   Vittorio: I was just saying, if we change it, need to be
 deliberate in choosing the name.

    -   Tim: Just for perspective 90% of devs don’t know what web
 authentication is but they use it

    -   Kris: I mentioned they might change the name and internally
 since they already use it there was some back lash so I say
 don’t change it unless theirs a good reason to change it

    -   Tim: so other than there is technically an API with that name,
 why else would we change it?

    -   Sam: we already have a federated credential type in credential
 manager. Additionally, devs don’t have a sense of what FedCM
 is and so this may be the only time to have the opportunity to
 change the name.

    -   Tim: But we still wanna be clear and obvious that this has to do
 with “Federated” Credential Management above all else

    -   Nick Doty: I don’t have strong attachments to FedCM, I know this
 is FedID CG, but I imagine there’s a much larger group of
 folks you wanna talk to but a reminder not all of us are as
 close to it as y’all might be.

    -   Heather: it will take time but we have 8 hours spread across
 TPAC that we could partially use for investigating renaming

    -   Tim: we could use that time to just gauge if the rename is even
 necessary and time box for the actual exercise.

-   [<u>Decision Trees
    > Update</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/pull/19):

    -   Sam: Peter is the only one who can speak to the updates so I
 just added it to AOB so I could mention it was updated.

    -   Kris Chapman: I did updates to the tree based on feedback from
 last meeting. Working on doing some sales force specific trees
 because of reach out from google regarding storage access
 APIs. Basically one use case is FedID so adding decision trees
 based on how sales for uses it as concrete examples. Sales
 Forces as RP and IDP with external resources as an example of
 use cases we want to support. Emily Scadan was the organizer
 and Yohan and Kaustubha, and jeremy neigh in there who brought
 it up. Mentioned 1st party sets and JS needed to accommodate
 this. As part of 1st party sets we have some issues such as
 not all products under same privacy policy because they are
 product specific and the lawyers wouldn’t want to go for a
 universal privacy policy as a catch all. I am expecting to
 have them done by wednesday and shared with the group. May be
 generic, finding the right teams and getting info will be
 interesting

    -   Sam Goto: maybe another good use of chromes time would be to sit
 with Kris Kaustubha and Yohan to go through the tree and find
 where it falls short

    -   Kris: yeah we set a meeting wednesday yesterday for that and to
 set meetings as well.

    -   Nick: I noticed 1st party sets mention for the tree and I spoke
 to Kris about it and how it applies to FedID and FedCM, would
 appreciate a clear explanation of the problem and why it’s
 necessary

    -   Kris: basically in those trees, if I say “call to 1st party
 sets” that is where FedCM or Storage Access API might be the
 answer in place of FedCM. So the issue is a FedID use case
 pointing to these other technologies as part of the flow.

    -   Nick: what I couldn’t understand was does the description
 prohibit the use of those other interfaces? (My assumption
 would be no)

    -   Heather: the high level is FedCM doesn’t require 3rd party sets
 but otherwise 1st party sets would be used more often and
 FedCM will pick up more often you are looking across domains
 and continue to prompt for consent and 1st party sets would
 help accommodate that cross domain same party federation

    -   Tim: an example is like Fidelity has the stock side but also the
 Net benefits in a different domain but it’s all fidelity.

    -   Sam: this is all a consideration to browsers that don’t support
 1st party sets, not FedCM itself. We fail if our partners
 aren’t happy with the approach. FedCM is just an API that
 allows a consent prompt to be asked to share data across
 privacy boundaries and various browsers approach this
 differently. So we want to have this discussion on how the
 extra prompting comes from browsers that don’t support 1st
 party sets over FedCM.

    -   Kris: So an example is how the sales force is a bunch of linked
 domains under the Sales Force umbrella. FedCM doesn’t have an
 idea for broad accommodation of 1st party sets and we don’t
 want to spam users with prompts on login to allow this cross
 domain sharing and be annoying to end users.

    -   Nick: Basically we are saying that we are either going to spam
 users or say you better be okay with sharing this info cross
 domain and I think there should be a better way.

    -   Kris: well we just prompt by domain and unfortunately there are
 generic domains that are not descriptive but still require
 this 1st party set handling. Treating domain names as an
 arbitrary boundary is not an approach I support.

    -   Sam: I agree and think we will need new options for use case
 specific apis and there are domains bought by companies to
 ensure linkage through iframes which may need new things like
 iframe sandbox flags and to be clear origin by origin to
 understand what needs to be added to ensure that linkage in a
 privacy preserving fashion. We just need to deeply understand
 the space and narrow each use case to its basic problems.
 There is an adversary tracking here and if you make yourself
 available M/Tu we could deep dive on these cases.

    -   Nick: I appreciate the summary and would like a chance like Sam
 mentioned to understand the specific application of each use
 case

    -   Sam: just to be clear cross domain wouldn’t solve other issues
 like storage access right?

    -   Kris: yes because products like tableau is a case where user
 action isn’t enough to give permission. And another problem
 with Storage access API is user access as well (not everything
 is in frames, users wouldn’t know what’s going on behind the
 scenes).

    -   Sam: I am not sure that problem fits within FedCM and I don’t
 think we can solve this without 1st party sets.

    -   Kris: We actually own a ton of domains and this isn’t a
 criticism, I am saying we need to know what the answers are so
 when we work on the trees we know what to put at the end of
 these paths to make the use case work.

    -   Heather: yes like 1st party sets works for what it was made for
 but Sales force may have a different use case that needs a
 different solution.

    -   Kris: At that point we might need to go server to server and
 those relationships are hard to communicate to users.

    -   Sam: are you concerned about deprecated 3rd party cookies or
 other stuff?

    -   Kris: yes, we have situations where we say we are sorry for
 things like online chat where they don’t work in some browsers
 because of how cookies or redirects work in those browsers and
 can or can’t facilitate these behaviors.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Nick Doty (Center for Democracy & Technology)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Sam Goto (Google)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Jaime Perez (Yahoo)

-   Yi Gu (Chrome)

-   Zachary Tan
