# FedID CG call (Atlantic) - 27 June 2022

-   Moderator: Kris Chapman

-   Scribe: Ben, Cameron

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   Use Case Tree and <u>[third-party cookie mitigation table](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Third-party-cookie-mitigations) updates</u>

    -   Federated Trees / Flow:

        -   Login: [<u>https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/a0411419883</u>](https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/a0411419883)

        -   Session: [<u>https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/5c211437209</u>](https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/5c211437209)

        -   Logout: [<u>https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/0d011437211</u>](https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/0d011437211)

        -   Embedded Apps/Content: [<u>https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/5f511437722</u>](https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/5f511437722)

-   AOB

    -   Next week is US Independence Day; normally an APAC call. Expect to cancel

Notes
=====

Heather: Should we talk about the use case tree? Sam are there things
that you wished to discuss

Sam: Yes, we want to learn about the origin trials

Heather: Kris, walk us through the use case trees?

Kris: Start with federated login. Vittorio said we should figure out
what we wanted to cover. So let’s start with a user experience. Each
decision asks a question about user state and gives hints about what
APIs are of interest. Are starting points and all critical points
covered? Did User is logged in, federated session, logout, or embedded
application.

Vittorio: Overarching comment: support! Perhaps dive deeper. Sign in and
tokens can be independent. From which point of view is this described?
Currently omniscient. Perhaps use the investigative tools of developer,
e.g. “do they have an account?” is impossible for a developer to
determine.

Kris: I was trying to do this from the developer perspective. Hopefully
to guide them to the correct API.

Vittorio: Small correction of technical detail. Perhaps need two
flowcharts. Redirect vs SPA use cases. Auth code is in Javascript or on
server side in these cases. Logically identical but the use cases may
make sense.

Kris: Want to add browser details to the APIs

Sam: +1 the effort. Will show some of the open questions we have to
present.

Kris: I’ll split the login one as Vittorio suggested. Going to need a
lot of help because I’m trying to remember practical concerns.

Heather: Would it be helpful to have an ad hoc call?

Kris: yes

Heather: Let’s take that to the slack channel. Moving on to Sam.

## FedCM Update [Slides](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/blob/main/meetings/2021/Web%20Identity%20API.pdf)
Sam: Excellent- good segue. Currently on Origin trial for FedCM. Next
step is Intent to Ship. Got feedback from developers and other browsers.
Let’s talk timelines. Aiming M105. Also hard to deprecate
FederatedCredential as a spec type. Probably just a spec issue and not
visible for the developer.

Heather: Sam, questions during?

Sam: Please hold?

Tim: One challenge is the CredMan spec expects credentials to be legit
credentials. Some overloading. That is hard

Sam: Sure. I’ll show why we integrate in CredMan in a few slides.

Sam: Here is what we have been shipping. \*screen share\* This is old
news. Here is the account chooser for the web. Here it is on desktop.
Good initial feedback. Still have more questions than answers. Overall
good base. Planning to send a Intent to Ship in the next few weeks.
Expect it to not meet all needs, but be something to build upon. Plan to
ship along with all privacy sandbox APIs in Q3 and catch M105.
Questions?

Vittorio: Can you write a “press release” to talk about intent and what
you think you are shipping?

Sam: Boy can I talk about that! See next slides.

Ben: still had open privacy concerns and concerns about single browser
implementations

Sam: agrees with open privacy concerns and wanted to discuss a bit
further. Understands Firfox/Safari have different implementation
constraints. Chrome is looking for plausible
convertibility/interoperability.

Ben: just want confirmation

Sam: This is the bar that chrome uses for every feature across the board

Kris: What I2S means is not clear to non-browsers.

Sam: Origin trials have been communicated differently by different
people. OT are experiments and a Intent 2 Experiment represents that.
Intent to Ship is something a little bit further down.

Kris: Developers see this as the only thing available. The more generic
you are in explaining this, the better

Sam: :+1:

Achim: +1 to Vittorio’s point. Change is expensive. And we can’t run it
in prod.

Sam: it isn’t that the API is complete, it is just a solid baseline to
work from, want to preface that a lot of the evolution will come from
definitions in FedIDCG. Beyond intent to ship. Most of the work so far
has been developed 1 on 1 or working directly with devs. Can’t solve
this ourselves, hoping to be more partnership driven moving forward.

-   Relationship between FedCM and WebAuth: Ability to both login and
pass basic contact info, Federation typically relies on
 recoverable identifiers like email and phone. WebAuthen has strong
 privacy properties, can be incremental and recoverable elsewhere.
 For many use cases having keys isn’t enough. Develop APIs so these
 credentials can be called at the same time. Some future solution
 to get public/private keys and credentials.Looking to use PKI
 paradigm for using Public key for identity. FedCM is more focused
 on Identification, this entails presenting self online using
 different personas (Social IDs). Should be able to choose which
 social ID you want to present yourself as on the site. Hope to
 “bring own identity”. Look to apply for front channel logout on
 SAML. Membership IDs (subscription managers) aggregators that
 unlock content as result of using service. Not seen as identity
 provider, example “Twitter Blue” that allows you to communicate
 membership. First Party Sets wouldn’t be something expected to be
 exposed. Need some First Party SSO so API evolves for logging into
 1st parties. Looking into UX affordances where browser takes
 identity of user to give sense of directionality. Extend UX to be
 more extensive and enhanceable. Primary use case for age
 verification. Expose Auto-Complete as part of this work for IDPs
 (verify addresses and Numbers). Going from “Pull” (query for and
 return account). “Push” method only deliver user account.

Tim: Thinks these are great features for users. Originally tried to
bring up problems in past but told that these are out of scope, but now
they are in scope and decided without this CGs input.

Sam: On Charter, can re do how we charter ourselves. Should rethink
scope of this group. Maybe also bring in folks for other groups.

Tim: need to have a clear sense this is where discussion (especially for
federation flows) should be, especially for significant privacy/security
behavior.

Sam: I’m not yet concerned about link decoration, but the privacy
considerations they are concerned with focus on 3rd party cookies.

Tim: Why no concern on link decoration?

Sam: i”m concerned but it’s not a priority. Proposal for bounce tracking
and link progression to mitigate bounce tracking

Heather: original charter was to focus on immediate problems. Most
retractable of 3 problems.

Tim: gives browser control over storing a lot more sensitive data that
people don’t think browser should be hosting.

Heather: What does Google have feedback on versus made decisions on?
Sounds like some stuff from the origin trial lead to settling some of
these questions without CG input.

Sam: The hardline is the first few slides in terms of we are going to do
this no matter what so please tell us if this in concerning. I’ll share
the slides.

Vittorio: FedCM is not a solution for 3rd party cookies. Charter should
preserve the Federation goals of this CG. Distinguishing Auth from ID is
tricky. Age verification by provider who knows your age puts that
provider in critical path. Can do age verification by provider but
browser should not be host of that data.



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, Co-chair)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0 \| Okta)

-   Peter Kotwicz (Google)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google LLC)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)

-   Bill Densmore (ITEGA.org)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)

-   Kaan Icer (Google Chrome)
