# FedID CG Agenda - 8 August 2022 (Atlantic)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Cameron

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Cameron (as always, lol) (and we are very grateful!)

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   [<u>TPAC 2022 Planning</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1616EDFkRvzMEJT1xE-ZDZHAmQjRcY5TxAiANcbbJcA8/edit)

-   Step-wise review of [<u>decision tree flow diagrams</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/tree/main/decision_tree_flows)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   Decision Tree Flows: [<u>https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/85e12187438</u>](https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/85e12187438)

    -   Kris: Version of decision tree flows for Safari (looking for
 feedback from Apple). Goal to help developers oriented toward
 Safari. Will have version for Chrome and Firefox as well.

    -   Heather: Chrome team says they are working on theirs as well

    -   Kris: Login Status API is one of first things. It’s used to
 signal to browser if user should be considered logged in or
 not (used for actual decision though). Things as they stand
 today, hope to do a version comparing Safari today versus next
 year. Biggest thing for Federation is Storage Access API.
 Makes sense, when there's a trigger to at least access API.
 Apple Posted on Webkit that popups was a temporary solution
 (hope to remove in future).

    -   George Fletcher: Can be separated from the browser, for back
 channel logout. The IDP context of the session across multiple
 RPs is somewhat dependent on deployment strategy. Only needed
 in context where you want the IDP being killed to trigger a
 global log out.

    -   Kris: if you go down the flow for the 1st decision. If there’s
 an active RP cookie, Should be a 1st part Cookie option on
 other side of flow, but basicall for the IDP at that point
 it’s about access/1st party cookie.

    -   George: in todays world if someone redirects to my IDP, I will
 know about it in that context. And iFrames are broken, could
 seperate from full page redirects. Were you thinking iframes
 in this context?

    -   Kris: I was thinking iframe sin general federated login.

    -   George: pop-ups could be complicated if triggered from iFrame

    -   Kris: yes flow is similar to iFrame

    -   George: is there an active RP server side session? How would you
 know outside RP Session cookie context? No way to connect to
 server side session unless corresponding cookie

    -   Kris: okay I will update that text.

-   Federated Sessions: [<u>https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/5c211437209</u>](https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/5c211437209)

    -   Kris: first choice, is there an iframe doing the tracking or
 not? Then follow to see if status has changed from IDP. If has
 then RP will update status. Alternatively there is no iFrame,
 rp tested to see if can access valid token. Can RP test
 themselves for Access token or should RP ping IDP to test
 token validity. If not valid, prompts user to log in again,
 otherwise do refresh to show user content. Didn’t go down path
 of IDP & RP owned by same org but I could if that is useful

    -   Heather: aren’t there a lot of questions about how you signal
 that

    -   Kris: yes, and if folk could send feedback about whether we need
 more or less detail that would be appreciated

    -   Brian: Are we discussing use cases for ID token only?

    -   Kris: yes I was thinking this was just access token and we do a
 different flow to centralize down to different options. The 2
 “?” are fairly similar in all the flows they appear in. I have
 flow for the \#3 step for Storage Access vs CHIPS, etc. Would
 it be better to break it out versus duplicate in each flow (is
 that more or less complicated?)

    -   Heather: I think for the viewer it is better to be repeated on
 each slide but Kris as the editor it’s probably easier to
 update in one place.

    -   Kris: I might make its own thing then later copy across. I may
 also add all flows to their own login versus session folders
 so it’s better organized.

    -   Heather: We talked about fleshing out the table and using it as
 foot notes, maybe we use that as an alternative for a
 reasonable path. Peter asked a question in issue 15
 ([<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/15</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/15)).
 Peter asked several questions we covered in the pacific call,
 the user sessions set in browser we’d like more context of
 single user session case set in browser. Anyone have examples
 of where we have seen this in the wild?

    -   George Fletcher: I mean the browser managing user state is also
 not common so unless a user is trying to PoC these API’s

    -   Heather: this is a non-single page app

    -   Vittrio: I don’t understand what this means in practice

    -   Kris: so this is RP managing Session in browser

    -   Vittorio: this is where a cookie is presented to persis a
 session. Cookie is controlled by browser. For single page apps
 they instead use a background access token to run the session.

    -   Kris: Here we are talking 1st party cookie managed in the
 browser.

    -   George: or you could be calling login status API to manage
 token. Right now login status API, the IDP needs to be able to
 say person is logged in to this RP

    -   Vittorio: Is logged in is not an API anymore but a bit you set.
 To me “siLoggedIn” is something you call after you are logged
 in on the login page. The Browser checks the bit automatically
 to investigate login.

    -   George: maybe this will allow for additional functionality so
 the browser thinks someone is already logged in to this
 behavior.

    -   Vittorio: I suspect that may not be the case because this domain
 was marketed as IDP and use as user access (RP may want to do
 step up. Anything that doesn't use cookie doesn’t tell you
 it’s signed in or not.

    -   Heather: There are many services like Amazon that will identify
 you without sign in, but other services, even without login
 state, still like to personalize. Writing JS isn’t going to
 make the browser give you data unless in the fed CM case they
 can negotiate it

    -   Peter: I am not sure storing session in 1st party cookie, I am
 not sure if it is shared with other RPs with same IDP but you
 can probably get by with redirects.

    -   George: only need for FedCM to do 3rd party logout (in global
 logout context) or in iframe and want to confirm user has
 active session where FedCM required. Full circle this comes
 back to the charter to see what we need to add to FedCM to
 maintain current functionality.

    -   Peter: One of the first questions we ask is am I single page
 versus web app where we do most work server side, meaning java
 script would be fine. Do we need to return data before we run
 JS

    -   Vittorio: we are falling back into theory land, I don’t think
 the principle JS is incompatible. Most common is autopost that
 says on load post this form. I wouldn’t be too worried about
 use of JS in cases where we may not use JS. But do we use RP
 in redirect is more important for where do we need to transfer
 data without having something stripped out or not. You
 providers in FedCM can you do it or do we need something else?
 I suggest we keep discussion as specific as possible.

    -   Peter: AS someone on browser side things that scare me most are
 the less specific elements.

    -   Kris: what I see is when the RP (a series of domains) meant to
 be logged in to are owned by same company (3rd party or 1st
 party cookie I see running in to issues.

    -   George: Cross domains owned by same companies are cases we can
 show right. Today we make that work with full page redirect
 and each domain gets full page session cookie. The pure
 browser impact is basically a 1st page redirect on visit. This
 is in iframe in meta container and behavior that’s broken, but
 that’s a separate discussion.

 

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Kris Chapman (Co-chair)

-   Peter Kotwicz (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google/Chrome)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Dani Katzman (Cross River)

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI International)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)

-   Achim Schlosser (EnID)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Yi G (Google Chrome)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Bjorn Hjelm (Verizon)
