# FedID CG call (Pacific), 19/20 December 2022

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: [<u>Cameron Boozarjomehri</u>](mailto:cboozar@mozilla.com)

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   FedCM Hackathon

-   AOB

    -   Our next call is an Atlantic call on 9 January 2023.

Notes
=====

-   Heather: Plan to do a Hackathon to see what it takes to get FedCM
 integrated into Shibboleth SAML and other popular auth frameworks.
 About 30 folks interested including software consortium board
 members. Shooting for March 1st.

    -   1\) Can scholarly publishers participate

    -   2\) User feedback

-   Heather: Problem is they can’t deliver code outside of the corporate
 VPN bubble. The code may be open sourced but from an
 enterprise/research/EDU folks are likely using forks and won’t be
 able to test against a live service without some support. Another
 question is the seamless access team has a lot of experience with
 UX design but maybe out of scope

-   Sam Goto: pretty sure most API’s/Services serve UX and not other way
 around, but still great to get feedback. Ex: when do prompts show,
 what language do they use, what do they say, and how that affects
 adoption

-   Vittorio: is there a table comparing things done in grants and other
 behaviors that break with 3rd Party Cookies

-   Heather: No but could use a few extra lines for context and what’s
 saml specific. The teams coming on this know SAML isn’t really
 impacted by getting rid of 3rd Party cookies, but want to make
 sure they develop integration for FedCM now before it replaces 3rd
 party cookies for things like tracking. FedCM is handling
 discovery anyway.

-   Vittorio: I hear they are interested in FedCM work, so they are
 being proactive. What concerns me is the idea that FedCM becomes
 used for different trackers like bounce trackers. At TPAC there
 was a panel on bounce tracking/redirects in FedCM may potentially
 creep in rather than be explicit requirements.

-   Ben VanderSloot: from a browser perspective, kicking over oidc and
 saml seems unwise so ideally we would like to eliminate url
 decoration for tracking versus for actual core web use cases.

-   Sam: +1 ben, chrome has no thoughts of bounce tracking that hinders
 oIDC or SAML.

-   Ben: wouldn’t want Mozilla get into a similar situation causing
 split browser behavior

-   Sam: we are designing fedcm with the same intent in hopes it has
 better foundation going forward. Have web move to a more private
 place, and FedCM would be a good foundation for these protocols
 (OIDC, SAML). We hear front channel logout needs to be preserved
 and we want it in FedCM, and chrome is emphasizing the
 implementation limitations. I expect an outcome to be that we can
 leverage FedCM to use SAML and enable front channel logout

-   Vittorio: Preserving front channel log out preservation could be
 enough motivation to do the other things we want to do in FedCM
 and it’s ideal they have the option. Idea of a “good foundation
 for future” I find dangerous, for instance the channel selection
 could be a new vector for 3rd party cookies. Don’t want to allow
 3rd party re-direct, for me these things aren’t things we want to
 adopt right now. If the goal is get to place to include fedcm,
 that’s what I’d be concerned about. If this happens it must be
 slow and with many investigation opportunities

-   Ben: I heard “we are building a good foundation” so in the future we
 can get rid of decorators with FedCM

-   Sam: that’s correct

-   Vittorio: that’s still a very big change and if that’s the
 interaction then we need to discuss it now/in the near near
 future. Otherwise these features might just be suddenly
 implemented when we were alternatively looking for a remediation
 of 3rd party cookies. May close the api and too bad so sad

-   Ben: 2 thoughts: 1) would love opinion from Vitorrio Tim and Sam.
 just a quick reading to get their perspectives for a FedCM tie in
 path/alternative.
 [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/3</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/3)

-   Sam: I read it and thought the discussion would happen today is it
 not today?

-   Heather: no there’s not enough folks in the APAC call

-   Ben: My other point 2) is we should include some “life boat” support
 in case w3c goes down in the new year. May need new Zoom link and
 mail list incase of that issue

-   Heather: Zoom not a problem but docs/slack could be a problem. All
 calendar invites also from w3c. W3c and MIT are arguing over money
 and MIT is cutting back funding so if worse comes to worst then
 need to upgrade. I can make sure the group keeps running. Tim Kris
 can we get names/email addresses to pull mailing list names

-   Tim: I’ll grab a copy of internal/public list members

-   Ben: we are getting poked by our w3 standards link so I need to get
 with him

-   Heather: worse comes to worst we will have a back-up

-   Tim: Nicolas can you give an explanation of what you were talking
 about

-   Nicolas: sure, we’ve been working on new features for FedCM API and
 we are trying to ship features missing from initial launch, and
 one of those features is what Google Sign in Service calls “Hosted
 Domain”. Allow RPs to only request sign in of certain account from
 specific IDP. Company wants only let their users login to site,
 they pass the hosted domain value so FedCM only show eligible user
 accounts (like corporate contact info, etc). That is the concept
 of hosted domain feature

-   Tim: And this is big because their employees share account info
 between personal/work

-   Nicolas: and that’s why we want this hosted domain, for that
 situation. Was curious if there’s anything similar in OIDC. Are
 other folks familiar with this, is it in other IDPs, or is it just
 unique

-   Tim: The case is there, can’t just filter on realm, need to look at
 what in the token you compare to (can’t look at username). Could
 be on home tenant, and remote tenant and need a way to separate
 accounts. Will be diff by deployment

-   Vittorio: Would be good to have something in writing. N=0 we have
 many ways of partitioning users so 1 tenant with us can be
 partitioned with their own tenants. Some driven by URL, some by
 identifiers, etc. Mechanics and cardinalities are different/diff
 sizes. Would love something in writing so I can circulate in okta.

-   Nicolas: I will take that as my action item, write it up, and
 service it in a call or github.

-   Kris: add me to people who want this including Tim and Vittorio

-   Vittorio: I think it’s telling you went to find this in OpenID to
 implement more Saas services, if there are use cases here then we
 should drive it especially if it needs to live at protocol level

-   Heather: +1, want to help protocol community

-   Sam: There was stuff cut out of scope for baseline api because we
 need to cut scope but now there’s stuff we need to leave behind
 that we wanted to do but couldn’t. Working with folks on
 deliberation of things, was in blog posts, none of them in github
 issues, hoping to add explainers. We have a timing attack we need
 to address with Ben’s Help. Multi-ID API getting help from Ben.
 Want to be able to call api from within iFrames, user/magic api,
 hosted domain/login domain api. So many things we need to
 introduce at some point. Will try to package them so we can all
 discuss 1 by 1 or just break it down more.

-   Heather: is this a good point to ask what’s up with isLoggedIn and
 Apple

-   Sam: possible intersection with IDP status api related to timing
 attack issue. Algorithm is more important than api, We haven’t
 found the best use for a site to announce itself as logged in
 which the apple proposal does. We agree it would be useful but
 knowing Id provider is logged in to IDP, that would help FedCM
 with timing attack.

-   Ben: What Sam makes sense. Something here would be useful

-   Vittorio: I am fond of mission of login API/status, makes it hard
 for IDPs to hear it. Agree needs to be aligned with mission of
 when browsers first implemented adding signing in and tracking. If
 there’s anyway to move it forward or discuss or pull stuff out
 then it would be much easier for me to convince the product team
 to make some calls to flip a bit versus adding new calls and APIs.

-   Ben: I wanted to ask, what was your complaint before your time in
 the group, browsers wanted to observe signing?

-   Vittorio: Jon willander said want IDP that can dictate how to
 authenticate to a service and prove authentication took place.
 Problem is kills other ways IDP can know what happened. Makes it
 harder to innovate moving forward

-   Sam: Problem with login status api was because no prompt or
 permission would be easily re-usable. What is the biggest threat
 model here? With IDP sign in status api there’s no UX at time of
 call but prevents abuse by waiting till RP calls it

-   Vittorio: 1st party sets would be how to know RP and other parties
 are on board but is tricky.

-   Sam: would be good to have jon comment and say what he has in mind
 and what apple wants.



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Sam Goto (Google)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Russell Ianniello (AAF)
