# FedID CG call, 14 January 2022 (Atlantic)
-   Moderator: Kris Chapman

-   Scribe: Tim Cappalli


Call-in details: see
[<u>https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s)?

-   Reminders:

    -   Community Group Membership

    -   W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct

-   Draft Community Group Report

Proposal - [<u>OAuth in iFrames</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/2) (Lee)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Work Item - FedCM (Sam)
-----------------------

-   [<u>Session extension</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/14#issuecomment-1011211242)

Any Other Business
------------------

Notes
=====

Proposal - [<u>OAuth in iFrames</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/issues/2)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{Lee} related to [<u>protocol library issue
22</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/protocol-library/issues/22)

-   Can’t establish identity because IdP cookies aren’t available in the
  iframe

-   Most discussions have been around making the IdP aware

-   Some responses from folks have been to “just use OAuth”

-   Spec (OAuth) says that putting tokens in URLs is a bad idea. It is
  certainly done, but not idea. You’d need to make tokens single use
  as you have to expect they would be intercepted or tracked

-   Things like CSP frame ancestors might prevent clickjacking, may not
  be enough to provide identity to the iframe.

-   If we can pass identity securely to the iframe, some of the issues
  in the bearer spec are solved, such as not providing it in the URL

    -   Not aware of built-in attributes in HTML that map to protocols
      like OAuth

    -   Caching not ideal: cache-nostore?

-   Only talking about iframes, but are other tags interesting as well?
  Img, media, etc

-   Based on research, lots of people are putting it in the URL. Some
  are doing hacky things like doing a fetch first and then loading
  into source doc. Some using parent postMessage.

{Vittorio}

-   OAuth is not identity, access tokens are not identity

-   Normal identity flows that just happen to be embedded in an iframe,
  so may not be a solution to the general 3P cookie issues

-   Mechanics in bearer token usage are generally about top level frame
  usage

-   Passing attributes still don’t solve renewing the token, which is
  why postMessage is a common system, since it is dynamic

{Hirsch}

-   Curious about goal statement: goal to unlock API calls in iframe
  (aka access data) or is it to sign in the iframe

-   Concerns about losing sight of who the actor is

-   Teams iframes salesforce. Team gets token and sends to SF to use,
  we’ve bypassed consent in some ways

{Lee}

-   If parent frame is the client, and the iframe is the resource
  server, the AT is used to load resources from that page. Once page
  is loaded, you’ve established a session with the frame content

-   Agree it doesn’t solve 3P cookie problems. Won’t be one magic
  bullet. This may help some cases

{George}

-   Parent frame needs to pass AT to the child frame. In the past, this
  has typically been done with postMessage. Is there a reason that
  doesn’t work or is this a simplification.

{Lee\]

-   Not clear if most people do that.

-   Problem is: there is no concise “this is how you do this” resource

{Kris}

-   Not all of it is child frame talking to top frame

-   Scale of people trying to implement things, if we ask everyone to
  switch to postMessage

{Sam Goto}

-   Browser perspective: seems trivial for a user agent to implement

-   Interaction without making it OAuth specific - analogy: in fetch,
  you’re able to set HTTP headers, don't want to put in URL

-   Looked into iframe spec, no way to set headers in iframes today.
  Could be something to discuss across browser community

{Vittorio}

-   Assumption that you would pass the AT, and it would be used by the
  code in the iframe to call APIs. Instead, I’m hearing that the AT
  is used to access the page itself.

{Lee}

-   We can’t do dances inside the iframe because of other parties
  restrictions

-   Have to support multiple methods

{Vittorio}

-   Clarifying: protocol themselves, can be as secure as you want.
  There’s a difference between having a web page that expects to do
  authentication using classic methods and a web page which is an
  API that expects a token in a certain way

-   E.g. take a token acquired from a native flow and use it to access
  pages in an unintended way. Potential increase in attack surface

{Lee}

-   We have a scope that indicates whether you’re allowed to embed.
  Threat models looked at what someone could do with that token:
  single use, client secrets tied frame ancestor settings, etc

{Vittorio}

-   Should be no client secrets given this is all client side. Let’s
  discuss in the issues.

{Kris}

-   Looking at some standardization of how this should be done. Should
  be documented and easy for the developer community to digest.

FedCM - [<u>Session Extension</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/14#issuecomment-1011211242)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Beri presenting

{Beri}

-   Got feedback that we're tying two things together that we shouldn’t,
  access and renewal

-   RP Session Extension vs Token Renewal

-   RP Session Extension doesn’t rely on 3P cookies and we can probably
  address later

    -   {silent consensus}

-   Token renewal

    -   User wants to load and embed a calendar, and have that cal
      continue to be up to date without the user having to sign in
      again (e.g. return 3 days later and still updated)

    -   Main question: problem statement accurate? Relies on 3P cookies?

        -   {Kris} yes, relies on 3P cookies

        -   {George} as a use case, valid. Is that a token renewal or
          session extension likely depends on the implementation.
          Some may request a new token, others may redirect to IdP
          and drop a token. So yes, likely affected by 3P cookies

        -   {Vittorio} Need more details. Initial issue doesn’t talk
          about embedded. What is a token in this case (client side
          token, or service side token with client side state). Too
          many things undefined to comment

    -   Focus on the case where this is an iframe

        -   {Vittorio} what is in the iframe?

        -   {George} Suspect there are both implementations (JS in
          iframe or cookie/session model)

        -   {Vittorio} clarification is necessary to explore
          considerations for both

    -   Start with JavaScript inside the iframe

        -   {Vittorio} if something inside the iframe uses the same
          identity as the top level: fall back to JS AT logic. If
          you want iframe to be independent, you have problems
          because you don’t have access to the top level cookie jar.
          Might be disallowed by policy at the IdP (clickjacking)

        -   {George} Even if you want those sessions to be different,
          often they are about the same identity, e.g. IdP SSO
          experience

        -   {Beri} embedded content with different identity than parent,
          how often does this happen?

        -   {Vittorio} can happen. Journal site where calendar is
          embedded.

        -   {Hirsch} iframes with different application identities, is
          very common in the enterprise space, not as much in
          consumer. Critical biz apps rely on top level embedding
          apps owned by another company

        -   {Kris} both scenarios are required

        -   {Hirsch} &lt;missed the question&gt;

        -   {George} how do you bind the SSO token to the same device to
          where it was issued. In the JS space, probably ways to
          secure that. Definitely not possible in a URL

        -   {Beri} How do you make sure that whatever artifact was
          granted is used in the place that it was intended.

        -   {George} token binding was a way to bind the device

    -   {Sam Goto} Do we as a group know that production services break
      in this scenario when 3P cookies go away?

        -   {George} User got authenticated in iframe. Now iframe needs
          to re-validate the session. No cookies. IdP can’t tell the
          calendar that the user is still logged in

        -   {Vittorio} need to decide the specific thing we’re talking.
          All of this stuff exists in production. We weren’t talking
          about iframes last time. Could be in tab 1 top level, then
          go to somewhere else and come back to tab 1. Just using
          the iframe to hit the API to renew the local session.
          Suggestion: be very clear about the scenario we want to
          talk about.

    -   {Sam Goto} demo would also be super helpful

    -   {Tim} let’s do show and tell on each call for something that
      breaks

    -   {Vittorio} Concrete example:
      [<u>https://www.cloudidentity.com/blog/2016/07/25/controlling-a-web-apps-session-duration-2/</u>](https://www.cloudidentity.com/blog/2016/07/25/controlling-a-web-apps-session-duration-2/)

    -   {Sam} We have a flag to test with, will send out

    -   {Tim} record and create an issue if you can

General Library of Useful Reading
=================================

-   [<u>Unsanctioned Web
  Tracking</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/)

-   [<u>Tracking Preference
  Expression</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-dnt/)

-   [<u>W3C TAG Ethical Web
  Principles</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)

-   [<u>Self-Review Questionnaire: Security and
  Privacy</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/)

-   [<u>Web Platform Design
  Principles</u>](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/)

-   [<u>Authentication vs Federation vs
  SSO</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/authentication-vs-federation-vs-sso-9586b06b1380)

-   [<u>Keeping Your APIs Secure for Multiple User
  Types</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/keeping-your-apis-secure-for-multiple-user-types-d5c627793c4c)

-   [<u>OAuth Security Workshop 2021 session on Identity Flows and
  Browsers</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2021/OSW2021-Identity_vs_Browser.pdf)



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Brian May (dstillery)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   Lee Graber (Tableau/Salesforce)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation)

-   Hirsch Singhal (Microsoft Identity)

-   Kristen Chapman (Salesforce, co-chair)

-   Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0\|Okta)

-   Matt Liu (The Washington Post)

-   Beri Lee (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google)

-   Kaan Icer (Google)

-   Brock Allen (Duende Software)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   Yi Gu (Google)
