# FedID CG call, 6 June 2022 (Pacific)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Lee Graber

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group
            > Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
            > Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   First-party Sets discussion (see
    > [<u>May</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-fed-id/2022May/0010.html)
    > and
    > [<u>June</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-fed-id/2022Jun/thread.html)
    > threads on the public mailing list)

-   [<u>Third-party cookie mitigation
    > table</u>](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1R9UDAczDaSASO-s6VxWuiCye0RxILsSjJYRYpLElJSw/edit#gid=0)

-   AOB

    -   FedCM Update

        -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230)
            > Small update on the timing attack problems

        -   Question to Ben: any other big problem you’d like us to
            > resolve before we ship?

Notes
=====

Keep in professional …

Discuss the conversation on FPS (First Party Sets) … whether FPS is a
viable project. Privacy Group has “kicked it out” deeming it not moving
forward. Impact on FedCG because we thought that FPS would be there. Tim
has posted something detailing how FPS helps First Party federation but
not 3rd Party Federation. 1st Party Fed is multiple sites owned by the
same entity that share the same idp. The assumption had been that FPS
and not FedCM would solve this. Sam (Q: What will FedCM do without FPS).

Sam – Relying on FPS to prevent some breakages. LIkes differentiation
btw 1st and 3rd party Fed. 1st … one case is country codes, fidelity.com
& fidelity.com.br … they are ‘really’ the same site and are related.
Browser doesn’t know that. Another case (more ‘controversial’) …
different brands owned by the same company but not as obvious. Audible
is owned by Amazon. Instagram is owned by Facebook. FedCM was not meant
to solve those problems … FPS was. A meaningful user prompt might make
sense in places where that can make sense in the flow … FedCM could
still work, but maybe a bit awkward API right now. For country codes,
putting a FedCM prompt seems really awkward.

Kris – SF has multiple brands but when integrated, they share the same
identity and have multiple services offering pieces under different
domains.The end user would have no clue how to understand the
relationship between these brands. Have domains for lightning UI as an
example. FPS might not have been a great answer but it was … something.
3rd party federation where our tools are in their domains.

Sam – The other use case not handled by FedCM … extra domains setup for
security reasons, like gstatic.com, which has certain limitations but
supposed to be hidden and shared. Johann enumerated a set of FPS cases
that FedCM would not handle … places where no user interaction / browser
mitigation. What does Ben think?

Ben – Where to start. Kris votes for SF. SF has \~400 domains, when
logging into SF app, usually \~10-40 different domains involved. Answer
before has been ‘use one domain’ … if we are given 10 years. Clean
CNames doesn’t help. People log in to one interface. They don’t want to
understand lightning versus CRM. Ben … “what actually needs to be
shared”. Mostly the Auth Creds but some nuance there. Authenticate with
SF which creates some state in the browser which can be accessed
anywhere? Some convos with Sam about what the bounds are. Does that meet
the needs? Kris – StorageAccessAPI has been limited to Apple
implementation which is not great. Tableau is an example where the lack
of passive flow is problematic. StorageAccessAPI (SAA) is ‘show a button
to get your widget to be shown’. The idea of user permissions is on the
surface fine but how often you have to do it / how many times. John
wants ‘isLoggedIn’ to drive the duration down to 30 min. … leaving
StorageAccessAPI behind … could integration with CredentialAPI w/
account chooser & domain chooser, could that be the right direction.
FedCM might be one form of credential but so could SAML … might be
possible, might be ugly. Ben says going through Credential API seems
like the path that might be cleanest.

Tim – terminology is an issue. Credential is just an artifact in a
browser. Sounds like creating a new kind of cookie as long as it is
flagged up front. Ben?

Ben – “Sounds roughly right” … 3P cookies are viewed as bad (generally)
because they allow sharing of state with a 3p origin that is hidden to
the user.

Tim – So we are saying we need a new type of cookie taht is scoped. We
are just creating something that has restrictions by default.

Ben – If we could clearly communicate boundaries on a cookie. That is
why SAA is something pursued by Mozilla … although it is just cookies
now. Designed entirely to allow cookies to work. Because it communicate
directly with the user and so general purpose it can be difficult to
communicate with

Marshall – Within SSO, lots of options on implementation. Can see how
people would like a nice way to do all of this but seems like this will
be a big compat leap. Once you get into SSO within an org, lots of paths
to SSO. Creds could be a good idea but worried about reality. How do we
get orgs to a reasonable working state.

Lee - re: what Chrome has said about needing to handle reality, with
Chrome, everyone just lets Chrome update. There is trust with the users
that allows automated updates and not much of a long tail of old stuff
to support. Do you worry that turning of 3pc will result in users
turning off that auto update because things broke for them?

Marshall - clarify where you worry about breakage?

Lee - when you get into the enterprise, people do SSO in a variety of
ways and they may not adopt a simplified API. Worried about the timeline
of releasing features like FPS and CHIPS and when 3pc are disabled. Will
things still be broken when 3pc are disabled? Will people stop
upgrading?

Marshall - trying to standardize on any credential structure in an SSO
situation is a lot of work, requiring more coordination for the
transition. FPS might mitigate those SSO use cases, which would reduce
the pressure of what FedCM needs to cover. Knowing that if you need to
gate on all browsers coming up with consensus on what a credential blob
looks like, that’s going to take time and FPS is supposed to bridge that
gap.

Lee - I worked with one team to plan for supporting FPS, and now that
might not be needed.

Marshall - Google is still planning on incubating FPS in WICG. It isn’t
in PrivacyCG, but that doesn’t mean Google will stop working on it. The
ecosystem that does want it will still be able to experiment with it.

Kris - Salesforce has been arguing for FPS and expanding FPS; will still
use it to whatever degree we can. These use cases need more of the
browsers to come together to help solve the problems. Need to be able to
go out to the community with a more structured plan of what orgs can do
and test. Internally, changes take a year. Working with clients, just
the notification of change takes a year, and changes take longer than
that. We need a distinct answer of what to do before things break.

Heather – Good segue to the table we were trying to make progress on.
This is an outline that needs to be translated to writing at some point.
Knowing that this stuff exists is great but knowing how / when to use
them … we need to help that get flushed out. Had talked with Kris about
working with authors to flush out individual lines

Kris – Kaustuba has been great. Working with John and ?? from Apple to
get some help.

Marshall – Ben, you said SAA for Firefox only does cookies?

Ben – That is a pending change soon to be in nightly. Been working on
aligning with Apple a bit more. Forward Declaration is currently a
suggestion / discussion between Edge, MOzilla, … hoping to implement
soon. Heartened by recent success in aligning between browsers in last
couple meetings. Would like to align better on messaging to devs on what
the solutions are. Everyone wants that

Marshall – Like to have alignment in browsers but … have to look at what
exists already. This is not IE6 days. The web has devs that have these
responsibilities already and as stewards of the browser space, we need
to listen to users and devs.

Heather – everyone has a part in making the experience of the user the
best. We are all trying to do the right thing. But as long as there is
divergence, developers have to develop for multiple paths. But on iOS …
there is really only 1 choice

Kris – Personal feeling, in Privacy CG … Apple is pro-privacy w/ domain
boundary will splinter things. Also, think cross domain as the issue
makes sense for ads but for fed id, it is more cross context. What do
users understand when they actually go to a website.

Ben – I agree :). Want to second what Marshall said is that the browser
is the user Agent and is trying to do good things by them. A functioning
internet is important.

Sam – AOB (Any other business) – Ben … can I have your digits. We have
been working on feedback on fedcm regarding timing attack to correlate
users. Want to discuss our new approach / idea and want to validate with
you. Issue 230 on FedCM

Ben – Sounds good. That was the only real issue we had (at the time of
reading the spec)

Sam – would love to eventually have multiple contributors from different
browsers

Heather – next week back on to Atlantic time

Queue
=====

-   

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Kris Chapman (co-chair)

-   Lee Graber (Tableau / Salesforce)

-   Dongoh Park (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google / Chrome)

-   Sam Goto (Google / Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Google / Chrome)

-   Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Marshall Vale (Google / Chrome)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   

-   
