# FedID CG Notes - 31 October 2022 (Atlantic)

-   Moderator: Kris Chapman

-   Scribe: Heather Flanagan

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   [<u>Updates to the Decision Trees</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/tree/main/decision_tree_flows)

-   FedCM topics (if attendance supports discussion)

    -   [<u>Issue 320: Why Sec-FedCM-CSRF and not Sec-Fetch-Mode</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/320)

    -   [<u>Issue 319: Allow multiple IdPs to be used</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/319)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Decision trees

-   (Kris) Updated the [federated login decision tree]
 (https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/blob/main/decision\_tree\_flows/login/Federated%20Login%20OIDC%20Oauth2%20Auth%20Code%20Flow.png)
 . Updated since TPAC, focusing on the red question marks. It
 looked like for those the only current option is the Storage
 Access API. Would like a better option. Also, if you look at the
 entry point, it used to include the question if there is a
 first-party cookie set. Streamlined that. Also added in the
 Chrome, Firefox, and Edge being potential options for CNAMES. Did
 not include Safari because they have some CNAME mitigations. Final
 change, had received feedback about iFrames vs pop-ups, but not
 sure where that’s meant to be in the flow. Added a note to that
 effect and looking for feedback. These changes happened in all
 four of the login flows. Also made some updates to the session and
 log out. Any questions so far?

-   (Vittorio) trying to understand the difference between 5 and 6; they
 look the same?

-   (Kris) they probably are, just in different scenarios. 5 is when its
 from the same org, and 6 is when its from different orgs

-   (Vittorio) the same org doesn’t mean anything; maybe use same domain
 because that’s what counts in this context. If the options are
 exactly the same, go ahead and combine; the flows are already
 complex.

-   (Kris) will give it some thought; they are slightly different in
 that you maybe able to use alternative solutions (e.g., FPW,
 CNAMES)

-   (Vittorio) being in the same org might be one of the many reasons;
 if you start down that path, you’d have to enumerate all the
 reasons. Maybe say “in order to use this options, use xyz”.

-   (Kris) Also updated the [logout flow](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/blob/main/decision_tree_flows/Federated%20Logout%20Flow.png)).
 Is there any difference between the different protocols when
 logging out? Still have the red question mark for the
 front-channel logout; storage access API doesn’t make a lot of
 sense in that scenario. Maybe flag it as just not supported?
 Looking for feedback.

-   (Vittorio) currently skipping a very important message. If you’re
 logging out from the IdP, in OIDC there is only one way -
 RP-initiated logout. Then, after that, you decide if you want to
 log out from all the other RPs, and that’s when you decide
 front-channel vs back-channel. It’s not mandatory to log out from
 all RPs. They are different flows if you want to do IdP-initiated.
 In OIDC, IdP-initiated is very much like RP-initiated, with just
 one additional step. For SAML it might be a different tree.

-   (Kris) only other one is session management; that one needs more
 work (link TBA). Will send that around for people to look at; need
 feedback. Am also doing a decision flow for ad serving for the Ads
 G

-   (Sam) really good stuff. Can you share the presentation you gave on
 same party federation and the specific flows you have for
 Salesforce?

-   (Kris) yes; the flows are up there but haven’t been updated. Will
 work on that.

-   (Sam) is there a specific branch that maps precisely to the flow you
 showed us?

-   (Kris) No; specifically on Salesforce there isn’t because these
 flows are more future as to what it will look like when the tools
 are there. Salesforce hasn’t decided what path they’re going to
 take.

-   (Sam) then I’m confused about the exercise. Is the decision tree a
 generalization of the use cases, representing the entirety of the
 use cases?

-   (Kris) the Salesforce thing is trying to be a generalization, trying
 to show what it’s like to be a third party provider, that embeds
 content into another party. Also trying to be specific to the
 decisions that matter for Salesforce. So, storage access API is a
 viable option, but it’s not one Salesforce would support because
 of the UX.

-   (Sam) still confused. When will we know we’re done with the decision
 trees? Are they supposed to represent every use case in the use
 case library? Should I expect for it to represent the concrete use
 cases that we’re aware of?

-   (Kris) the generic decision trees should represent the use cases
 that we have in the library. When we’re done with this, it should
 have all the possible options for those different use cases. The
 Salesforce stuff is still influenced by where we will actually go,
 and we haven’t gotten there yet. The Salesforce flows won’t cover
 everything and aren’t being kept in sync.

-   (Sam) Salesforce is an instantiation of the specific decisions being
 made; the other decision trees are a superset; is that right?

-   (Kris) The generic decision trees are that superset. We aren’t
 entirely done where we don’t have the flows done yet. For example,
 we don’t have one for embedded content yet. We’re 80%.

-   (Sam) Would like more info on the Salesforce use case and how that
 maps back to the generic decision tree. Overall concern is that
 this exercise is too abstract and we may be prematurely
 generalizing, looking for a broader pattern when we don’t know
 what decisions will actually be made. It’s the right exercise, but
 we might not be ready for it it yet.

-   (Kris) I see the point, but not sure Salesforce is the right
 example. Salesforce tends to make last minute decisions.

-   (Sam) if I look abstractly at the tree, it’s very academic. I don’t
 know how to make it actionable and concrete. The way to test
 premature generalization is to take a specific instance and say
 “does this match our generalization?” If not, we’re premature.

-   (Kris) this is getting back into the challenge of origin trials. The
 people able to have concrete decisions are probably going to be
 smaller in size. Will talk to Tim Cappalli at Microsoft to see if
 he has input on how to handle this.

-   (Sam) would encourage to send the same exercise to everyone else;
 think of a specific flow you don’t want to have broken, and then
 see if what you want will break.

-   (Kris) the decisions we’re balking on are any decisions that impact
 UX.

FedCM issues - [<u>Issue 320: Why Sec-FedCM-CSRF and not
Sec-Fetch-Mode</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/320)

-   (Christian) Question about whether to use CORS scheduled for this
 Thursday, November 3 · 11:00 – 12:00 to really dive into the
 discussion. See the Slack channel for connection details. This
 will be a detailed technical discussion; expect to report back to
 the group.

-   (Sam) Would like to have some guidance from Mozilla in advance of
 the call if possible.

-   (Ben) Everything we have is in the issue.

FedCM issues - [<u>Issue 319: Allow multiple IdPs to be
used</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/319)

-   (Nicolas) still trying to form the right design for handling
 multiple IdPs. Have had some brainstorming sessions with Ben, and
 expect to have more with the group. The latest idea is to split
 the API into two use cases, one for showing IdPs during pageload
 without any user interaction with the page. For that one, the user
 agent would need to decide a stopping point when it will no longer
 accept IdPs. Second use case is when the user clicks a generic
 sign in button. For that case, the RP could invoke the IdPs that
 they support all at once. That case does not require the user
 agent to wait as much; it could directly call methods from the
 IdPs. There have been questions as to how this should work with
 the edu case (thousands of IdPs with metadata held in a
 federation). Still trying to understand those concerns.

-   (Heather) it’s not always users submitting an email address to get
 to the IdP; it can be other things that are held in metadata.

-   (Nicolas) makes sense. Don’t see how the FedCM API can handle
 thousands of IdPs

-   (Heather) may want to look at the SeamlessAccess project and how
 they’ve tried to handle this. It uses browser local storage.

-   (Nicolas) please put more info in the issue

-   (Ben) the doc that was posted that shows the shape of what we’re
 thinking of makes sense. The thing we’re looking at trying to do
 is support these multiple IdPs in many contexts. Settling towards
 having a GET call with a pre-registration method or GET a request
 and show the user interface now. There is already a parameter in
 the credential manager API request called mediation, and this
 would add something called mediation\_delayed. Treat it as a
 pre-registration. The finer points of this have not been hammered
 through. Ben has a very that works for Mozilla; happy to share.
 Agree we don’t rake the edu case brought up in the discussion
 because we preserve the single IdP user activation use case.
 Discovery can be punted to the website still.

-   (Sam) It would be wonderful to hear what works for Mozilla. Question
 for Heather - is what you said about what SeamlessAccess expects
 to break captured in a use case library and in a decision tree
 flow?

-   (Heather) use case library yes, but not a decision tree flow. Will
 work on this with Kris.

    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/4</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/4)
     and
     [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/protocol-library/blob/main/src/cross\_origin\_discovery.md</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/protocol-library/blob/main/src/cross_origin_discovery.md)

-   (Nicolas) the doc I posted is brief, so it may be confusing, but
 please feel free to ask in the issue. Am writing a more
 comprehensive doc, but it’s been a collaboration with payments
 that has been interesting but is taking longer.

-   (Vittorio) would like to point attention that today, the problem of
 discovery is solved in many different ways. One of the most
 prominent ways is via intermediaries that handle lots of logic. If
 you’re thinking of providing the same expressive power, you will
 run into thousands of IdPs and the traffic for the user agent will
 be unsustainable. And, many people don’t want to expose their
 customer lists. Consider identifying the use cases where you’ll
 add the most value without being a complete replacement. The
 alternative is to be more cognizant of the intermediaries’ APIs
 and engage with those, asking them to support particular calls or
 end points. That would be a bigger hurdle in adoption, but it
 might make some use cases that are otherwise impossible to do with
 just the user agent to be more viable.

-   (Ben) description of the multiple IdP design (this is also in the
 GitHub issue, so please add thoughts/comments there).

-   (Nicolas) seems along the same lines as what we have in the doc. One
 question si around what happens when you want to show on page
 load.

-   (Ben) if you want to show on page load, it would have to be quiet,
 and browsers can treat differently what constitutes justification
 for showing the door hangers without user activation. This is the
 goal of the permissions API as well. We can’t specify UX too
 precisely.

AOB

-   (Sam) If there is time, I could give an update on FedCM's rollout,
 because we made into the M108 branch cut and FedCM started rolling
 out to chrome beta channels and will start rolling out to chrome
 stable in November 29th.

  

Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)

-   Kris Chapman (salesforce)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)

-   George Fletcher (CapitalOne)

-   Wanpeng Li (University of Aberdeen)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google Identity)

-   Kaan Icer (Google)

-   Yi Gu (Chrome)

-   Wendy Seltzer (W3C, second half)
