# FedID CG call (Pacific) - 11/12 April 2022
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Heather Flanagan

Call-in details: see
https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/cceb9fe7-9d35-4041-a31f-d47b7757d64b/20220321T080000

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s) - 

-   Reminders:

    -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) and the [<u>W3C Community Contributor License Agreement</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

<!-- -->

-   Review [<u>Primitives by Use Case</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Primitives-by-Use-Case)

    -   Rough order the list

    -   continue to work through the details of [<u>Third party cookie mitigations</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Third-party-cookie-mitigations)

-   AOB

-   Review: Sam’s understanding of the [<u>CNAMES</u>](https://github.com/privacycg/meetings/issues/17) idea

Notes
=====

Heather: See the working doc for prioritizing protocol primitives

Vittorio: Concerned that SAML SLO is at the bottom of the list

Heather: SAML SLO is vary rarely deployed, at least in the Higher Ed
context (where SAML federation is extremely common)

Brian C: SAML is very heavily used, but it’s used in a B2B context. The
standard suggested flow is not impacted by 3pc.

Tim: this is also why it’s not impacted by the ITP redirect chaining.

Brian C: you do need to send the cookie each time. It’s like a
hub-and-spoke redirection

Vittorio: When we will eventually need to talk about WSFED, though it
will be hard to assess to see if that is really going to be a problem.
WSFED renders a page with a list of images, and the source of those
images is the URL of the RP that's meant to sign-out

Brian: Ping has a mixed logout mode; if a user has a session across SAML
and WSFED connections, when logout is invoked, it will do the embedded
images first, and then fire off the SAML redirect chain

Heather: What about prioritizing link decoration

Vittorio: that’s hard. The rough order, in terms of frequency, would be:
sign-in first, token retrieval next, then sign-out.

Tim: the core protocol parameters are carried by link decoration; the
thing that causes the breakage is the same

Vittorio: yes, but the mitigations might be different. For example, if
the browser has heuristics that would recognize OIDC from SAML, then the
API options might be different

Heather: \[filling out notes for link decoration tab\]

Brian: That’s because people put all the state in a cookie; only a few
IdPs have multiple concurrent users

Vittorio: you can have different apps with a single endpoint

Heather: Moving to redirect tab

Vittorio: same principle applies of prioritizing based on sign-in, token
retrieval, sign-out

Brian: what’s the difference between link decoration and redirects?

Vittorio: link decoration, parameters may be stripped from the URL.
Redirect is something that happens when there is something being
executed by the browser. The intervention may differ

Brian: they seem really similiar

Vittorio: where mitigations for link decoration occur, it will almost
always include handling redirects, but logically they should be kept
separate

John: there’s clicking on a link which might have something stripped.
What about javascript vs 302, is there some different considerations
between decorations being stripped from javascript calls? Or does that
fit in the link decoration?

Tim: we need to come up with aggregated combinations. If you think on
clicking on a link for affiliate tracking, that has a click ID and a
redirect URL that turns into a redirect. So you’ll have to combine
things into their own use cases

Vittorio: When talking about breaking the web, yes. Twitter has started
to introduce unique trackers when you create a link to a tweet. Could
see the browser understanding that and culling that particular part to
give you the sanitized link.

Tim: even that breaks into two different use cases.

Brian: maybe it’s semantics of javascript vs a link, there are an
innumerable number of ways to effect navigation in the browser. It’s a
confusing distinction. If the prior one is only about links (a href
tags) then maybe sign-in isn’t impacted because the initiation is
through link clicking. They all blend together to some kind of
navigation in the browser.

Tim: ultimately, that’s the ask back to the browser folks, to map out
those combinations. How you initiate the next action, whether it’s a
click or javascript, the browser folks have much better understanding of
that.

Heather: perhaps this is a request to send back to the nav-based
tracking authors, to add more documentation to their doc about how the
browsers are actually working.

AOB - CNAMES

Sam would like validation as to whether
[<u>this</u>](https://github.com/privacycg/meetings/issues/17) is
correct

Tim: while CNAMES is an option, it is not practical in most
implementations. It includes having to deal with certificates, other
complications, that make this more complicated than it seems on the face
of it

Vittorio: we call this custom domains, and it has multiple moving parts,
and the customer has to be ok with using one domain for the RP and IdP.
That doesn’t work for customers like magazines that have to have unique
domain names. Anything that is necessary fo the endpoint (IdP) to be
seen as the same domain of the RP has implications. The entry in the
issue is valid, but you might want to raise the level of abstraction
because of how much has to be built in. Different providers will give
you different degrees of support.

Sam: want to ask the PrivacyCG is whether this is something that is
considered a viable option going forward, regardless of the expense. If
we pushed some people in that direction, would we run into a privacy
wall or some kind of intervention?

Vittorio: the challenge isn’t the expense, it’s that details are
missing. If you describe the solution, need to add more detail. e.g.,
would need to make sure you’re using a certificate common to both, OR do
the opposite and say “want an RP and an IdP in the same domain even if
they’re in different organizations.” and avoid level of detail

Sam: why I went in this direction, wearing my browser hat trying to
narrow down what is controversial. Browser vendors won’t have much
controversy over TLS. Trying to be low level enough to discuss this in
an isolated fashion

Tim: the trend I’ve seen is that ad blockers are doing DNS lookups to
see if a CNAME is going back to a known ad tracker.

Sam: Yes. I want to know what this blog post means:
[<u>https://webkit.org/blog/11338/cname-cloaking-and-bounce-tracking-defense/</u>](https://webkit.org/blog/11338/cname-cloaking-and-bounce-tracking-defense/)

Apple is already intervening on CNAMES, so is that even an option for
Chrome?

Tim: that’s what the ad blockers do today. They are hunting for CNAME
cloaking. Apple is just doing this in the browser.

Vittorio: fo rthis to be in an attack, there needs to be collusion
between the IdP and RP. And if it is collusion, they are already on the
same side. Don’t see how a malicious IdP could get the valid certificate
and be an effective attacker. This is where TLS helps us.

Sam: It seems to be intervening on CNAMES specifically.

Vittorio: they can intervene on CNAMES, but the certificates are
important here. There are checks built in to prevent orgs getting
subject names they don’t own.

Sam: There is a list of trackers they are aware of, so if any of the
CNAMES point to those addresses, they block it, regardless of the TLS
handshake.

Vittorio: then we need to make IdPs don’t get tagged as trackers.

Vittorio: the main thing missing from the github issue is that you need
to make sure both the RP and the IdP are on SSL, and that forces the IdP
to acquire a certificate that they own the domain. Suggest adding that
description to the issue.

John: there could be sites that create a well-known email account where
anyone can request a certificate

Tim: there’s a tracking vector based on connection itself

Vittorio: some middleware libraries won’t do anything if they can’t
establish a valid SSL with the target.



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta \| Auth0)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Sam Goto (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   John Bradley (Yubico)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft, co-chair)
