FedID CG Telecon, 17 September 2021
===============================
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Tim, Lee

- [Agenda](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/tree/main/2021)

Notes
=====

Heather -- Recap of last meeting. Terms sanctioned / unsanctioned
clarifications. Make sure we have a common understanding of the
terminology so all proposals have the same meaning. We tried previously
to get some set of cases which are ‘obviously’ sanction tracking vs
obviously unsanctioned (this is in User Stories)

George -- Is IDP wanting to know about user information (including
device information) during flows ‘obviously sanctioned’.

Heather -- Using identity information for anything else outside of IDP
is not ‘obviously sanctioned’. Sam has been working on WebID proposal
(link in Slack channel).

Sam -- Intention is to bring WebID proposal to the Group. Easy to fall
into premature generalization (for (un)sanctioned). We should pick a
couple of scenarios and talk more deeply to find patterns. We should
break things down between privacy and security. We should use terms like
“for security purposes”. Then should discuss privacy separately, ie
“what is the worst that could happen with the IDP having this
information”. Assertion is that usually they don’t conflict. When they
do conflict … that is when more discussion is needed (example is SPAM /
Abuse … the more the IDP knows, the better it can work but it also has
to gather a lot of data). When porting Privacy Threat Model, found lots
of common terminology to use.

Kris -- Comments on WebID -- (1) IDPs / RPs owned by the same entity and
potentially colluding. Response was that first party sets says this is
‘okay’. Can IDP and RP from same entity not use first party set. Privacy
should involve users being informed and choosing to engage in certain
behaviors. Shouldn’t just be “done in the background’ (users must
‘understand’). Concern is how to educate (vs how to stop)

Sam -- 100% agreement around discussion on collusion. Must be part of
threat model.

Kris -- Should call out the difference between collusion between
different companies vs a single company that owns both IDP & RP where
they might not even realize they are ‘colluding’.

George -- Likes classification of business / protocol use cases. In
&lt;&gt;, no data about the user is transferred and information is only
passed via back channel. The requirement says that the UserAgent is
\*not allowed\* to see the data so it must be backchannel. So there is a
discussion to be had on technical vs legal.

Judith -- Does licensed equate to ‘owned’ with regards to relationship
between IDP and RP.

Kris -- Was more thinking truly ‘owned’ but that is a good thing to call
out.

Heather -- I see WebID taking new primitives (FPS) as a mechanism to
prototype how to get FedID to work. When we have privacy concerns about
FPS, we need to make sure we also bring them up in PrivacyCG.

Adrian -- How many people on this call are planning on having a product
bought customers, ie Apple requires consumers be okay with what they are
providing vs just Enterprise customers. If you don’t have
direct-to-consumer paths, unlikely to do a complete job on the security
flows

Kris -- We have B2C and we are a SAAS provider. Very different
considerations for B2C vs B2B. What people consider private is often
very different.

Tim -- Google, MSFT, Ping, … significant set of consumer IDPs on the
call

Ken -- This started as consumer focused initiative. More worried that we
miss the privacy rules associated with business rules.

Sam (in response to ‘what feedback are you looking for) -- (Repeat) Make
sure we are using the same terms and have the same meanings. Take small
steps, establish first principles. Use cases, threat models …
foundational work to get agreement on. Example in threat model is
passing global ids around. Can we go through that concretely as a group
to talk through and get it polished. Work through the examples and
figure out if we can classify as ‘sanctioned’ / ‘unsanctioned’ and start
with easier examples like collusion. Thinking about Privacy exclusively
is helpful

Sam: I think we should start here:
https://wicg.github.io/WebID/\#cross-site-correlation

James -- Developing a use case for how to avoid sharing personal
information but still get personalized preferences and how they can be
informed and consent. Agree on needing to get agreement on the
terminology cause they can be different for different cases /
perspectives

Heather -- Opening issues on terminology is a helpful way to drive
discussion / consensus. Pulling in Christos to talk about international
education space

Christos -- The way we (education) use Federation seems to be very
different then how everyone else seems to. Working with EU program
(Erasmus) on full digitization of student records. As students move from
school to school, go and come back, want records to flow correctly and
so need to identify the user (student) uniquely in a way that will
follow them throughout the student education lifecycle &lt;?&gt;.
Currently 5000 universities. Also considering what to do with the
research collaboration use case that brings together researchers around
the world that require sharing resources. These collaborations range
from tens to thousands, and open questions of incident response,
tracking for collaboration, etc.

Beri -- Product lead on Google Web Platform. Thinking about future proof
and backwards compatible. How can ‘we’ leverage the expertise in the
‘room’. Might have questions that span EU / Consumer / … how to reach
out.

Heather -- you can always use the slack channel. You can also reach out
directly or even setup a call if need be. We could spend the rest of our
natural lives discussing terminology. What I am hoping … focus on
terminology until Oct 4th (line in sand) and then focus should be on
proposals and discussing them. And also putting together federation
reviews of technology proposals (like FPS … as a building block, does
that work for us, is it lacking, …). Can these building blocks work for
federation.


Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Anthony Nadalin

-   George Fletcher (Yahoo Inc.)

-   Hirsch Singhal (Microsoft)

-   Daniela Pöhn (Universität der Bundeswehr München)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)

-   Lee Graber (Tableau/Salesforce)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Allan Spiegel (Adobe)

-   Andi Hindle (independent)

-   Judith Bush (OCLC)

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   John Bradley (Yubico)

-   Bill Densmore (ITEGA.ORG)

-   James Rosewell (51Degrees)

-   Kaustubha Govind (Google Chrome)

-   Kaan Icer (Google Web Platform)

-   Brittany Dungan (Google Web Platform)

-   Yi Gu (Google)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Web Platform)

-   James Hartig (Admiral)

-   Beri Lee (Google Web Platform)

-   Adrian Gropper

-   Bjorn Helm

-   Dick Hardt

-   Janak Amarasena

-   Kristina Yasuda (Microsoft)

-   Sander Engelberts (OCLC)

-   Ken Buchanan (Google)

-   Sam Goto (Google)
