# 22 November 2021 (APAC)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Michael Knowles

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s)?

<!-- -->

-   Reminders:

    -   [<u>Community Group
  Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
  Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

Informal Discussion - FedCM draft
---------------------------------

-   See meeting notes from [<u>2021-11-19
   call</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/tree/main/2021)

-   The goal is to bring the FedCM API in to the CG as a work item.
   Google is ready to bring it to the group if we think it’s done.

-   Dan: need to land the API change that’s a PR before it’s proposed

-   Sam: Question to the group:

    -   What’s group’s tolerance for something unproven / undeveloped

    -   Want something more settled first?

-   Heather: Bring to group asap -- before it’s done

    -   Has to be room to be able to discuss

    -   If it is brought to group late -- that’s too late

-   Dick: +1 to Heather’s comments

    -   Up to authors

    -   As long as not embarrassed -- bring it on

-   Heather: DAn’s been doing such a great job putting it together

    -   Charter asks who is going to be the champion

    -   As long as it is an official work item it will get a lot of
  attention in the calls

-   Sam: Will sync with DAn to see if ok to bring officially

    -   DEsign will greatly benefit from the group / discussion

    -   2 things that are not perfect yet:

        -   1: Web API design and how it interacts with

        -   2: Work with Microsoft on Front Channel Logout

            -   (and the authorization parts of it)

    -   Expertise of this group will greatly influence

-   Heather: Who is the champion? Sam? Dan? Both

-   Sam: Probably both at this point

    -   Way more than we can do ourselves -- would welcome others’ help
  as well

    -   Codify the norm as things evolve and more people get involved

    -   Send PRs and we’ll go from there

-   Heather: Lots of good convos already starting to happen int eh
   issues list and PR list in the Git repo

-   Hetaher: is this going to go back to the TAG for review?

-   Sam: TAG is definitely one of the big reviewers

    -   And how it will interact with Credential Management API

    -   Have people here been on the TAG?

-   Heather: Hirsch?

-   Hirsch: Not directly

-   Sam: Very easy going group

    -   Don’t act as counsellers - more like advisors

    -   As much time as we can get from them we get benefit from

-   Dick: is it just administration? Or technical

-   Hea4ther: technical

-   Dick: I see IDP Revoation part

    -   There has been work with the RISK? WG

    -   Along the lines as: something has happened a while ago and you
  should revoke

    -   FB has signed it by having App call in on a regular basis to
  provide opportunities for the IDP to tell the App that the
  user is no longer allowed to sign-in

-   Sam: Done/deployed today? Does it involve 3P cookies?

-   Dick: Yes -- already happens today and has proprietary channel
   between app and IDP

    -   Effectivenly is a channel for IDP to push state updates to RP

-   Sam: If it doesn’t depend on 3p cookies, it won\[‘t break, and so
   won’t need to be repaired

-   Dick: EArlier drafts had a lot of abstraction between RP and IDP

    -   IDP could talk with RP directly

-   Sam: Yes -- but this version does not solve that problem (direct
   communication from IDP to RP)

    -   Vittorio and George had said that our explainer was very general
  and had a lot of things wei COULD do

    -   But currently only focusing oj 3P cookie depreciation

-   Dick: Will read in more detail and get back to you

-   Hirsch:

    -   CAPE and RISK are both supported by FGoogle

    -   Maybe discuss internally to see what implications are

    -   Also Microsoft has a CAPE implementation

    -   [<u>Re-thinking federated identity with the Continuous Access
  Evaluation Protocol \| Google Cloud
  Blog</u>](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/identity-security/re-thinking-federated-identity-with-the-continuous-access-evaluation-protocol)
  / [<u>Protect user accounts with Cross-Account Protection \|
  Google
  Identity</u>](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/risc)

-   Sam: Is it server-to-server?

-   Hirsch: Yes

-   Sam: So that wouldn’t involve FedCM -- as it is server-to-server

-   Dan: Do they learn specific account

-   Sam: Yes - I think they do

    -   How can we allow sign-in to happen, but not abusable for
  tracking purposes without user consent

    -   Want existing parameters that go back and forth between RP and
  IDP to be retained

    -   Don’t want to have to change any of the RPs with this change

-   Heather: Any other questions with the spec?

-   SAm: Logistics question:

    -   If we brought this here and moved repos, etc. how would upcoming
  meetings go?

-   Heather: We’d start getting into some of the actions that are
   recorded in GitHub -- discussing it with the group

    -   Discussions would be much more tactically focused

    -   And hopefully there would be additional work items - but that is
  how it would go

-   Sam: GReat -- there is a backlog of issues that needs to be
   addressed

-   Heather: Need to go over issues (with Sam and Dan) to prioritize the
   issues

-   Sam: What would we need to do? Just a repo move?

-   Heather: Would probably need to change the Charter to make it an
   official work item

    -   Also I can send posts to W3C site and would therefore put out a
  post about this work item

    -   More than 100 members -- they’d be interested in (tactical)
  discussion

-   Tim: This wouldn’t be the final place for this spec right?

    -   Would need to go to WG

-   Heather: Correct -- CGs incubates specs, then they have to go to WG
   for official adoption

    -   Maybe WebAppSec WG would need to be involved / be appropriate?

-   Sam: That matches my intuition

    -   And last discussions with Mike West were aligned along those
  lines (bringing FedCM to that WG)

    -   Also: WE’ve published our timelines and how fast we’ve been
  moving

    -   TArget: 2023 to block 3P Cookies

    -   So that means 2022 -- probably mid-2022 for having changes ready
  to start testing

    -   Need to write code in next couple of quarters

-   Heather: Will drop note to timeline here
   [<u>https://privacysandbox.com/timeline</u>](https://privacysandbox.com/timeline)

-   (Michael Knowles scribing :) )

    -   you are awesome!

-   Sam: TC39 is the only place we work in lock-step with ecosystem

    -   All other privacy sandbox APIs would move to Chrome before WG

    -   So we’ll likely get this out the door before getting
  standardized

    -   Expectation is that much is learned through implementation
  experience / prototyping / testing

    -   So standards will want to reflect those learnings

-   Heather; Long-term quertsion

    -   Lots of people attend privacy CG meetings

    -   Big thing after 3P cookies is: Link Decoration (removal)

    -   Are there any proposals?

-   Kris: No specific proposals for Link decorations

    -   But other browsers are already handling Link Decorations

    -   In many cases, Storage Access API is the proposed solution

-   Sam: Apple has, in their browser already, some link decoration
   heuristics

    -   They block 3P cookies if there are Link Decorations

    -   Some others (FF) will block 3P cookies if there are Link
  Decorations EXCEPT if it looks like Federated Identity links

-   Sam: This is often how these APIs are developed:

    -   Lots of disparate API implementations first followed by
  convergence over time

    -   So, these different ways to treat Link Decorations are part of
  that general progression

    -   We still want to focus initially on 3P cookie decoration (FedCM)
  but still designed it with eventual Link Decoration removal in
  mind

-   Kris: personal front concern for Link Decoration - is identification
   of a tracker

    -   Apple has Disconnect-Me lists

    -   Trackers are often determined based on Privacy Policy, etdc.

    -   What is a tracker vs. not is very much still in discussion in
  PRivacy CG

-   Sam: Some valid uses of Link Decoration (Federated Identity)

    -   Also other valid uses -- but probably small number -- handful

    -   So breaking Link Decorations in general and then providing
  high-level APIs for those valid use cases would be good

-   Kris: That approach is good from browser perspective, but from
   business perspective doesn’t make sense.

    -   Switching over 1st party domains doesn’t imply tracking

    -   Can’t expect BRowsers to understand that nuance

-   Sam: what about First Party Sets?

-   Kris: Dynamic nature of FPS is the problem

    -   Can’t have FB be on EVERYONE”s FPS

    -   Probably need something like DNS to be more sophisticated on the
  nature of the relationship between different domains

-   Heather: Salesforce is a pretty big example of that (multiple
   related domains)

-   Dick: Great work on FedCM spec Sam and Dan

-   Sam: Dan did a lot of that -- did a massive pass through the spec
   and cleaned things up

    -   Anyone who’se interested please look at it

    -   OAuth authorization case that we’ve been working on with MS /
  Hirsch needs a lot of love still

-   Hirsch: That would be a great topic for a upcoming call -- will open
   a bunch of issues on that for future discussion

    -   Also: How does a traditional App sign in a user?

-   Sam: Yes that is what we have -- equivalent to what we have to day
   with redirects

-   Hirsch: It would use the Authorization Code flow

-   Sam: Yes that is part of what needs more work

    -   Also, not sure what gets solved by FPS and CHIPS

-   Hirsch: FPS will solve the not-Auth use-case

    -   So FedCM will also need to solve those other use-cases Auth,
  etc.

    -   Would be good to use OAuth people to look at FedCM proposals

    -   And see how the latest proposals for OAuth

-   Sam: Isn’t Dick an editor for Oauth?

-   Heather: Yes but he dropped off :(

-   Heather: Dick can make the calls on Mondays, but not so much on
   Fridays

-   Hirsch: Iff this pattern of implicit grant and just push tokens
   where they need to go, that might be something we should consider
   more

-   Sam: We had discussed this previously

    -   While we are heads down ensuring 3P cookie deprecation support

    -   Also want to ensure taht we are enhancing login in general

    -   Eg: What if we had browser storage that was more trustworthy,
  would taht help?

-   Heather: We’ll probably need a massive interop event where people
   can bring their use-case to walk through

-   Kris: Improve Web Advertising Group put together a matrix with a lot
   of those things

    -   Ben Savage at FB has the latest version (of that matrix)

    -   Ben’s in Singapore

-   Sam: Heather are you going to connect with us on logistics?

-   Heather: Yes

-   Vittorio (from chat) - now that we have all the use cases, having a
   big table with a row each and columns for what breaks/what new
   proposal remediates would be very good

-   (next call is next week on Friday)

Any Other Business
------------------



General Library of Useful Reading
=================================

-   [<u>Unsanctioned Web
   Tracking</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/)

-   [<u>Tracking Preference
   Expression</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-dnt/)

-   [<u>W3C TAG Ethical Web
   Principles</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)

-   [<u>Self-Review Questionnaire: Security and
   Privacy</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/)

-   [<u>Web Platform Design
   Principles</u>](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/)

-   [<u>Authentication vs Federation vs
   SSO</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/authentication-vs-federation-vs-sso-9586b06b1380)

-   [<u>Keeping Your APIs Secure for Multiple User
   Types</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/keeping-your-apis-secure-for-multiple-user-types-d5c627793c4c)



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Dan Sinclair (Google; Chrome)

-   Kris Chapman (co-chair, Salesforce)

-   Heather Flanagan (chair, Google)

-   John Bradley (Yubico)

-   Sam Goto (Google)

-   Dick Hardt (Hello)

-   Yi Gu (Google)

-   Tim Cappalli (co-chair, Microsoft)

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0/Okta)

-   Hirsch Singhal (Microsoft)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)
